
STEPHENIE MEYER 

AUTHO* Of THE (I BESTSEUIHG TmUGHl Nt* VOOH MO ICOHl 




ace 



I’d had more than my fair share of near-death 
experiences; it wasn’t something you ever really got 
used to. 

It seemed oddly inevitable, though, facing death 
again. Like I really was marked for disaster. I’d 
escaped time and time again, but it kept coming back 
for me. Still, this time was so different from the 
others. 

You could run from someone you feared, you could 
try to fight someone you hated. All my reactions were 
geared toward those kinds of killers — the monsters, 
the enemies. When you loved the one who was killing 
you, it left you no options. How could you run, how 
could you fight, when doing so would hurt that 
beloved one? If your life was all you had to give your 
beloved, how could you not give it? 

If it was someone you truly loved? 



2 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



ENGAGED 



/ 



No one is staring at you, I promised myself. No one is 
staring at you. No one is staring at you. 

But, because I couldn’t lie convincingly even to 
myself, I had to check. As I sat waiting for one of the 
three traffic lights in town to turn green, I peeked to 
the right — in her minivan, Mrs. Weber had turned her 
whole torso in my direction. Her eyes bored into mine, 
and I flinched back, wondering why she didn’t drop 
her gaze or look ashamed. It was still considered rude 
to stare at people, wasn’t it? Didn’t that apply to me 
anymore? 

Then I remembered that these windows were so 
darkly tinted that she probably had no idea if it was 
even me in here, let alone that I’d caught her looking. 

I tried to take some comfort in the fact that she 
wasn’t really staring at me, just the car. My car. Sigh. 

I glanced to the left and groaned. Two pedestrians 
were frozen on the sidewalk, missing their chance to 
cross as they stared. Behind them, Mr. Marshall was 
gawking through the plate-glass window of his little 
souvenir shop. At least he didn’t have his nose 
pressed up against the glass. Yet. 

The light turned green and, in my hurry to escape, I 
stomped on the gas pedal without thinking — the 
normal way I would have punched it to get my 
ancient Chevy truck moving. 



3 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



Engine snarling like a hunting panther, the car jolted 
forward so fast that my body slammed into the black 
leather seat and my stomach flattened against my 
spine. 

“Arg!” I gasped as I fumbled for the brake. Keeping my 
head, I merely tapped the pedal. The car lurched to 
an absolute standstill anyway. 

I couldn’t bear to look around at the reaction. If there 
had been any doubt as to who was driving this car 
before, it was gone now. With the toe of my shoe, I 
gently nudged the gas pedal down one half millimeter, 
and the car shot forward again. I managed to reach 
my goal, the gas station. If I hadn’t been running on 
vapors, I wouldn’t have come into town at all. I was 
going without a lot of things these days, like Pop- 
Tarts and shoelaces, to avoid spending time in public. 

Moving as if I were in a race, I got the hatch open, the 
cap off, the card scanned, and the nozzle in the tank 
within seconds. Of course, there was nothing I could 
do to make the numbers on the gauge pick up the 
pace. They ticked by sluggishly, almost as if they were 
doing it just to annoy me. 

It wasn’t bright out — a typical drizzly day in Forks, 
Washington — but I still felt like a spotlight was 
trained on me, drawing attention to the delicate ring 
on my left hand. At times like this, sensing the eyes 
on my back, it felt as if the ring were pulsing like a 
neon sign: Look at me, look at me. 

It was stupid to be so self-conscious, and I knew that. 
Besides my dad and mom, did it really matter what 



4 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




people were saying about my engagement? About my 
new car? 

About my mysterious acceptance into an Ivy League 
college? About the shiny black credit card that felt 
red-hot in my back pocket right now? 

“Yeah, who cares what they think,” I muttered under 
my breath. 

“Um, miss?” a man’s voice called. 

I turned, and then wished I hadn’t. 

Two men stood beside a fancy SUV with brand-new 
kayaks tied to the top. Neither of them was looking at 
me; they both were staring at the car. 

Personally, I didn’t get it. But then, I was just proud I 
could distinguish between the symbols for Toyota, 
Ford, and Chevy. This car was glossy black, sleek, 
and pretty, but it was still just a car to me. 

“I’m sorry to bother you, but could you tell me what 
kind of car you’re driving?” the tall one asked. 

“Um, a Mercedes, right?” 

“Yes,” the man said politely while his shorter friend 
rolled his eyes at my answer. “I know. But I was 
wondering, is that... are you driving a Mercedes 
Guardian?” The man said the name with reverence. I 
had a feeling this guy would get along well with 
Edward Cullen, my. . . my fiance (there really was no 
getting around that truth with the wedding just days 
away). “They aren’t supposed to be available in 
Europe yet,” the man went on, 



5 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“let alone here.” 



While his eyes traced the contours of my car — it didn’t 
look much different from any other Mercedes sedan to 
me, but what did I know? — I briefly contemplated my 
issues with words like fiance, wedding, husband, etc. 

I just couldn’t put it together in my head. 

On the one hand, I had been raised to cringe at the 
very thought of poofy white dresses and bouquets. 

But more than that, I just couldn’t reconcile a staid, 
respectable, dull concept like husband with my 
concept of Edward. It was like casting an archangel 
as an accountant; I couldn’t visualize him in any 
commonplace role. 

Like always, as soon as I started thinking about 
Edward I was caught up in a dizzy spin of fantasies. 
The stranger had to clear his throat to get my 
attention; he was still waiting for an answer about the 
car’s make and model. 

“I don’t know,” I told him honestly. 

“Do you mind if I take a picture with it?” 

It took me a second to process that. “Really? You 
want to take a picture with the car?” 

“Sure — nobody is going to believe me if I don’t get 
proof.” 

“Urn. Okay. Fine.” 

I swiftly put away the nozzle and crept into the front 
seat to hide while the enthusiast dug a huge 
professional-looking camera out of his backpack. He 



6 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




and his friend took turns posing by the hood, and 
then they went to take pictures at the back end. 

“I miss my truck,” I whimpered to myself. 

Very, very convenient — too convenient — that my truck 
would wheeze its last wheeze just weeks after Edward 
and I had agreed to our lopsided compromise, one 
detail of which was that he be allowed to replace my 
truck when it passed on. Edward swore it was only to 
be expected; my truck had lived a long, full life and 
then expired of natural causes. According to him. 

And, of course, I had no way to verify his story or to 
try to raise my truck from the dead on my own. My 
favorite mechanic — 

I stopped that thought cold, refusing to let it come to 
a conclusion. Instead, I listened to the men’s voices 
outside, muted by the car walls. 

. . went at it with a flamethrower in the online 
video. Didn’t even pucker the paint.” 

“Of course not. You could roll a tank over this baby. 
Not much of a market for one over here. Designed for 
Middle East diplomats, arms dealers, and drug lords 
mostly.” 

“Think she’s something?” the short one asked in a 
softer voice. I ducked my head, cheeks flaming. 

“Huh,” the tall one said. “Maybe. Can’t imagine what 
you’d need missile-proof glass and four thousand 
pounds of body armor for around here. Must be 
headed somewhere more hazardous.” 



7 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Body armor. Four thousand pounds of body armor. 
And missile-proof glass? Nice. What had happened to 
good old-fashioned bulletproof? 

Well, at least this made some sense — if you had a 
twisted sense of humor. It wasn’t like I hadn’t 
expected Edward to take advantage of our deal, to 
weight it on his side so that he could give so much 
more than he would receive. I’d agreed that he could 
replace my truck when it needed replacing, not 
expecting that moment to come quite so soon, of 
course. When I’d been forced to admit that the truck 
had become no more than a still-life tribute to classic 
Chevy s on my curb, I knew his idea of a replacement 
was probably going to embarrass me. Make me the 
focus of stares and whispers. I’d been right about that 
part. But even in my darkest imaginings I had not 
foreseen that he would get me two cars. 

The “before” car and the “after” car, he’d explained 
when I’d flipped out. This was just the “before” car. 
He’d told me it was a loaner and promised that he 
was returning it after the wedding. It all had made 
absolutely no sense to me. Until now. Ha ha. Because 
I was so fragilely human, so accident-prone, so much 
a victim to my own dangerous bad luck, apparently I 
needed a tank-resistant car to keep me safe. 

Hilarious. I was sure he and his brothers had enjoyed 
the joke quite a bit behind my back. 

Or maybe, just maybe, a small voice whispered in my 
head, it’s not a joke, silly. Maybe he’s really that 
worried about you. This wouldn’t be the first time he’s 
gone a little overboard trying to protect you. 



8 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I sighed. 

I hadn’t seen the “after” car yet. It was hidden under 
a sheet in the deepest corner of the Cullens’ garage. I 
knew most people would have peeked by now, but I 
really didn’t want to know. 

Probably no body armor on that car — because I 
wouldn’t need it after the honeymoon. Virtual 
indestructibility was just one of the many perks I was 
looking forward to. The best parts about being a 
Cullen were not expensive cars and impressive credit 
cards. 

“Hey,” the tall man called, cupping his hands to the 
glass in an effort to peer in. “We’re done now. Thanks 
a lot!” 

“You’re welcome,” I called back, and then tensed as I 
started the engine and eased the pedal — ever so 
gently — down. . . . 

No matter how many times I drove down the familiar 
road home, I still couldn’t make the rain-faded flyers 
fade into the background. Each one of them, stapled 
to telephone poles and taped to street signs, was like 
a fresh slap in the face. A well-deserved slap in the 
face. My mind was sucked back into the thought I’d 
interrupted so immediately before. I couldn’t avoid it 
on this road. Not with pictures of my favorite 
mechanic flashing past me at regular intervals. 

My best friend. My Jacob. 

The HAVE YOU SEEN THIS BOY? posters were not 
Jacob’s father’s idea. It had been my father, Charlie, 



9 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




who’d printed up the flyers and spread them all over 
town. And not just Forks, but Port Angeles and 
Sequim and Hoquiam and Aberdeen and every other 
town in the Olympic Peninsula. He’d made sure that 
all the police stations in the state of Washington had 
the same flyer hanging on the wall, too. His own 
station had a whole corkboard dedicated to finding 
Jacob. A corkboard that was mostly empty, much to 
his disappointment and frustration. 

My dad was disappointed with more than the lack of 
response. He was most disappointed with Billy, 
Jacob’s father — and Charlie’s closest friend. For 
Billy’s not being more involved with the search for his 
sixteen-year-old “runaway.” 

For Billy’s refusing to put up the flyers in La Push, 
the reservation on the coast that was Jacob’s home. 
For his seeming resigned to Jacob’s disappearance, as 
if there was nothing he could do. For his saying, 
“Jacob’s grown up now. He’ll come home if he wants 
to.” 

And he was frustrated with me, for taking Billy’s side. 

I wouldn’t put up posters, either. Because both Billy 
and I knew where Jacob was, roughly speaking, and 
we also knew that no one had seen this boy. The 
flyers put the usual big, fat lump in my throat, the 
usual stinging tears in my eyes, and I was glad 
Edward was out hunting this Saturday. If Edward 
saw my reaction, it would only make him feel terrible, 
too. 

Of course, there were drawbacks to it being Saturday. 
As I turned slowly and carefully onto my street, I 

10 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




could see my dad’s police cruiser in the driveway of 
our home. He’d skipped fishing again today. Still 
sulking about the wedding. 

So I wouldn’t be able to use the phone inside. But I 
had to call. ... I parked on the curb behind the 
Chevy sculpture and pulled the cell phone Edward 
had given me for emergencies out of the glove 
compartment. I dialed, keeping my finger on the “end” 
button as the phone rang. Just in case. 

“Hello?” Seth Clearwater answered, and I sighed in 
relief. I was way too chicken to speak to his older 
sister, Leah. The phrase “bite my head off’ was not 
entirely a figure of speech when it came to Leah. 

“Hey, Seth, it’s Bella.” 

“Oh, hiya, Bella! How are you?” 

Choked up. Desperate for reassurance. “Fine.” 

“Calling for an update?” 

“You’re psychic.” 

“Not hardly. I’m no Alice — you’re just predictable,” he 
joked. Among the Quileute pack down at La Push, 
only Seth was comfortable even mentioning the 
Cullens by name, let alone joking about things like 
my nearly omniscient sister-in-law- to-be. 

“I know I am.” I hesitated for a minute. “How is he?” 

Seth sighed. “Same as ever. He won’t talk, though we 
know he hears us. He’s trying not to think human, 
you know. Just going with his instincts.” 



11 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you know where he is now?” 

“Somewhere in northern Canada. I can’t tell you 
which province. He doesn’t pay much attention to 
state lines.” 

“Any hint that he might ...” 

“He’s not coming home, Bella. Sorry.” 

I swallowed. “S’okay, Seth. I knew before I asked. I 
just can’t help wishing.” 

“Yeah. We all feel the same way.” 

“Thanks for putting up with me, Seth. I know the 
others must give you a hard time.” 

“They’re not your hugest fans,” he agreed cheerfully. 
“Kind of lame, I think. Jacob made his choices, you 
made yours. Jake doesn’t like their attitude about it. 
’Course, he isn’t super thrilled that you’re checking 
up on him, either.” 

I gasped. “I thought he wasn’t talking to you?” 

“He can’t hide everything from us, hard as he’s 
trying.” 

So Jacob knew I was worried. I wasn’t sure how I felt 
about that. Well, at least he knew I hadn’t skipped off 
into the sunset and forgotten him completely. He 
might have imagined me capable of that. 

“I guess I’ll see you at the... wedding,” I said, forcing 
the word out through my teeth. 



12 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, me and my mom will be there. It was cool of 
you to ask us.” 

I smiled at the enthusiasm in his voice. Though 
inviting the Clearwaters had been Edward’s idea, I 
was glad he’d thought of it. Having Seth there would 
be nice — a link, however tenuous, to my missing best 
man. “It wouldn’t be the same without you.” 

“Tell Edward I said hi, ’kay?” 

“Sure thing.” 

I shook my head. The friendship that had sprung up 
between Edward and Seth was something that still 
boggled my mind. It was proof, though, that things 
didn’t have to be this way. That vampires and 
werewolves could get along just fine, thank you very 
much, if they were of a mind to. 

Not everybody liked this idea. 

“Ah,” Seth said, his voice cracking up an octave. “Er, 
Leah’s home.” 

“Oh! Bye!” 

The phone went dead. I left it on the seat and 
prepared myself mentally to go inside the house, 
where Charlie would be waiting. 

My poor dad had so much to deal with right now. 
Jacob-the-runaway was just one of the straws on his 
overburdened back. He was almost as worried about 
me, his barely-alegal-adult daughter who was about 
to become a Mrs. in just a few days’ time. I walked 
slowly through the light rain, remembering the night 



13 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




we’d told him. ... As the sound of Charlie’s cruiser 
announced his return, the ring suddenly weighed a 
hundred pounds on my finger. I wanted to shove my 
left hand in a pocket, or maybe sit on it, but Edward’s 
cool, firm grasp kept it front and center. 

“Stop fidgeting, Bella. Please try to remember that 
you’re not confessing to a murder here.” 

“Easy for you to say.” 

I listened to the ominous sound of my father’s boots 
clomping up the sidewalk. The key rattled in the 
already open door. The sound reminded me of that 
part of the horror movie when the victim realizes she’s 
forgotten to lock her deadbolt. 

“Calm down, Bella,” Edward whispered, listening to 
the acceleration of my heart. The door slammed 
against the wall, and I flinched like I’d been Tasered. 

“Hey, Charlie,” Edward called, entirely relaxed. 

“No!” I protested under my breath. 

“What?” Edward whispered back. 

“Wait till he hangs his gun up!” 

Edward chuckled and ran his free hand through his 
tousled bronze hair. Charlie came around the corner, 
still in his uniform, still armed, and tried not to make 
a face when he spied us sitting together on the 
loveseat. Lately, he’d been putting forth a lot of effort 
to like Edward more. Of course, this revelation was 
sure to end that effort immediately. 



14 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hey, kids. What’s up?” 

“We’d like to talk to you,” Edward said, so serene. “We 
have some good news.” 

Charlie’s expression went from strained friendliness 
to black suspicion in a second. 

“Good news?” Charlie growled, looking straight at me. 
“Have a seat, Dad.” 

He raised one eyebrow, stared at me for five seconds, 
then stomped to the recliner and sat down on the very 
edge, his back ramrod straight. 

“Don’t get worked up, Dad,” I said after a moment of 
loaded silence. “Everything’s okay.” 

Edward grimaced, and I knew it was in objection to 
the word okay. He probably would have used 
something more like wonderful or perfect or glorious. 

“Sure it is, Bella, sure it is. If everything is so great, 
then why are you sweating bullets?” 

“I’m not sweating,” I lied. 

I leaned away from his fierce scowl, cringing into 
Edward, and instinctively wiped the back of my right 
hand across my forehead to remove the evidence. 

“You’re pregnant!” Charlie exploded. “You’re pregnant, 
aren’t you?” 

Though the question was clearly meant for me, he 
was glaring at Edward now, and I could have sworn I 
saw his hand twitch toward the gun. 



15 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No! Of course I’m not!” I wanted to elbow Edward in 
the ribs, but I knew that move would only give me a 
bruise. I’d told Edward that people would immediately 
jump to this conclusion! What other possible reason 
would sane people have for getting married at 
eighteen? (His answer then had made me roll my 
eyes. Love. Right.) Charlie’s glower lightened a shade. 
It was usually pretty clear on my face when I was 
telling the truth, and he believed me now. “Oh. 

Sorry.” 

“Apology accepted.” 

There was a long pause. After a moment, I realized 
everyone was waiting for me to say something. I 
looked up at Edward, panic-stricken. There was no 
way I was going to get the words out. 

He smiled at me and then squared his shoulders and 
turned to my father. 

“Charlie, I realize that I’ve gone about this out of 
order. Traditionally, I should have asked you first. I 
mean no disrespect, but since Bella has already said 
yes and I don’t want to diminish her choice in the 
matter, instead of asking you for her hand, I’m asking 
you for your blessing. We’re getting married, Charlie. I 
love her more than anything in the world, more than 
my own life, and — by some miracle — she loves me that 
way, too. Will you give us your blessing?” 

He sounded so sure, so calm. For just an instant, 
listening to the absolute confidence in his voice, I 
experienced a rare moment of insight. I could see, 
fleetingly, the way the world looked to him. For the 
length of one heartbeat, this news made perfect 
16 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




sense. And then I caught sight of the expression on 
Charlie’s face, his eyes now locked on the ring. 

I held my breath while his skin changed colors — fair 
to red, red to purple, purple to blue. I started to get 
up — I’m not sure what I planned to do; maybe use the 
Heimlich maneuver to make sure he wasn’t choking — 
but Edward squeezed my hand and murmured “Give 
him a minute” so low that only I could hear. 

The silence was much longer this time. Then, 
gradually, shade by shade, Charlie’s color returned to 
normal. His lips pursed, and his eyebrows furrowed; I 
recognized his “deep in thought” expression. He 
studied the two of us for a long moment, and I felt 
Edward relax at my side. 

“Guess I’m not that surprised,” Charlie grumbled. 
“Knew I’d have to deal with something like this soon 
enough.” 

I exhaled. 

“You sure about this?” Charlie demanded, glaring at 
me. 

“I’m one hundred percent sure about Edward,” I told 
him without missing a beat. 

“Getting married, though? What’s the rush?” He eyed 
me suspiciously again. The rush was due to the fact 
that I was getting closer to nineteen every stinking 
day, while Edward stayed frozen in all his seventeen- 
year-old perfection, as he had for over ninety years. 
Not that this fact necessitated marriage in my book, 
but the wedding was required due to the delicate and 



17 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




tangled compromise Edward and I had made to finally 
get to this point, the brink of my transformation from 
mortal to immortal. These weren’t things I could 
explain to Charlie. 

“We’re going away to Dartmouth together in the fall, 
Charlie,” Edward reminded him. 

“I’d like to do that, well, the right way. It’s how I was 
raised.” He shrugged. He wasn’t exaggerating; they’d 
been big on old-fashioned morals during World War I. 
Charlie’s mouth twisted to the side. Looking for an 
angle to argue from. But what could he say? I’d prefer 
you live in sin first? He was a dad; his hands were 
tied. 

“Knew this was coming,” he muttered to himself, 
frowning. Then, suddenly, his face went perfectly 
smooth and blank. 

“Dad?” I asked anxiously. I glanced at Edward, but I 
couldn’t read his face, either, as he watched Charlie. 

“Ha!” Charlie exploded. I jumped in my seat. “Ha, ha, 
ha!” 

I stared incredulously as Charlie doubled over in 
laughter; his whole body shook with it. I looked at 
Edward for a translation, but Edward had his lips 
pressed tightly together, like he was trying to hold 
back laughter himself. 

“Okay, fine,” Charlie choked out. “Get married.” 
Another roll of laughter shook through him. “But . . .” 

“But what?” I demanded. 



18 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“But you have to tell your mom! I’m not saying one 
word to Renee! That’s all yours!” 

He busted into loud guffaws. 

I paused with my hand on the doorknob, smiling. 

Sure, at the time, Charlie’s words had terrified me. 

The ultimate doom: telling Renee. Early marriage was 
higher up on her blacklist than boiling live puppies. 

Who could have foreseen her response? Not me. 
Certainly not Charlie. Maybe Alice, but I hadn’t 
thought to ask her. 

“Well, Bella,” Renee had said after I’d choked and 
stuttered out the impossible words: Mom, I’m 
marrying Edward. “I’m a little miffed that you waited 
so long to tell me. Plane tickets only get more 
expensive. Oooh,” she’d fretted. “Do you think Phil’s 
cast will be off by then? It will spoil the pictures if he’s 
not in a tux — ” 

“Back up a second, Mom.” I’d gasped. “What do you 
mean, waited so long? I just got en-en . . .” — I’d been 
unable to force out the word engaged — “things settled, 
you know, today.” 

“Today? Really? That is a surprise. I assumed . . .” 

“What did you assume? When did you assume?” 

“Well, when you came to visit me in April, it looked 
like things were pretty much sewn up, if you know 
what I mean. You’re not very hard to read, sweetie. 

But I didn’t say anything because I knew it wouldn’t 
do any good. You’re exactly like Charlie.” She’d 
sighed, resigned. “Once you make up your mind, 

19 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




there is no reasoning with you. Of course, exactly like 
Charlie, you stick by your decisions, too.” 

And then she’d said the last thing that I’d ever 
expected to hear from my mother. 

“You’re not making my mistakes, Bella. You sound 
like you’re scared silly, and I’m guessing it’s because 
you’re afraid of me.” She’d giggled. “Of what I’m going 
to think. And I know I’ve said a lot of things about 
marriage and stupidity — and I’m not taking them 
back — but you need to realize that those things 
specifically applied to me. You’re a completely 
different person than I am. You make your own kinds 
of mistakes, and I’m sure you’ll have your share of 
regrets in life. But commitment was never your 
problem, sweetie. You have a better chance of making 
this work than most forty -year-olds I know.” Renee 
had laughed again. “My little middle-aged child. 
Luckily, you seem to have found another old soul.” 

“You’re not... mad? You don’t think I’m making a 
humongous mistake?” 

“Well, sure, I wish you’d wait a few more years. I 
mean, do I look old enough to be a mother-in-law to 
you? Don’t answer that. But this isn’t about me. This 
is about you. Are you happy?” 

“I don’t know. I’m having an out-of-body experience 
right now.” 

Renee had chuckled. “Does he make you happy, 
Bella?” 

“Yes, but—” 



20 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Are you ever going to want anyone else?” 



“No, but—” 

“But what?” 

“But aren’t you going to say that I sound exactly like 
every other infatuated teenager since the dawn of 
time?” 

“You’ve never been a teenager, sweetie. You know 
what’s best for you.” 

For the last few weeks, Renee had unexpectedly 
immersed herself in wedding plans. She’d spent hours 
every day on the phone with Edward’s mother, 

Esme — no worries about the in-laws getting along. 
Renee adored Esme, but then, I doubted anyone 
could help responding that way to my lovable almost- 
mother-in-law. 

It let me right off the hook. Edward’s family and my 
family were taking care of the nuptials together 
without my having to do or know or think too hard 
about any of it. Charlie was furious, of course, but 
the sweet part was that he wasn’t furious at me. 

Renee was the traitor. He’d counted on her to play the 
heavy. What could he do now, when his ultimate 
threat — telling Mom — had turned out to be utterly 
empty? He had nothing, and he knew it. So he moped 
around the house, muttering things about not being 
able to trust anyone in this world. . . . 

“Dad?” I called as I pushed open the front door. “I’m 
home.” 

“Hold on, Bells, stay right there.” 

21 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Huh?” I asked, pausing automatically. 

“Gimme a second. Ouch, you got me, Alice.” 

Alice? 

“Sorry, Charlie,” Alice’s trilling voice responded. 

“How’s that?” 

“I’m bleeding on it.” 

“You’re fine. Didn’t break the skin — trust me.” 

“What’s going on?” I demanded, hesitating in the 
doorway. 

“Thirty seconds, please, Bella,” Alice told me. “Your 
patience will be rewarded.” 

“Humph,” Charlie added. 

I tapped my foot, counting each beat. Before I got to 
thirty, Alice said, “Okay, Bella, come in!” 

Moving with caution, I rounded the little corner into 
our living room. 

“Oh,” I huffed. “Aw. Dad. Don’t you look—” 

“Silly?” Charlie interrupted. 

“I was thinking more like debonair. ” 

Charlie blushed. Alice took his elbow and tugged him 
around into a slow spin to showcase the pale gray 
tux. 

“Now cut that out, Alice. I look like an idiot.” 

“No one dressed by me ever looks like an idiot.” 

22 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She’s right, Dad. You look fabulous! What’s the 
occasion?” 

Alice rolled her eyes. “It’s the final check on the fit. 
For both of you.” 

I peeled my gaze off the unusually elegant Charlie for 
the first time and saw the dreaded white garment bag 
laid carefully across the sofa. 

“Aaah.” 

“Go to your happy place, Bella. It won’t take long.” 

I sucked in a deep breath and closed my eyes. 
Keeping them shut, I stumbled my way up the stairs 
to my room. I stripped down to my underwear and 
held my arms straight out. 

“You’d think I was shoving bamboo splinters under 
your nails,” Alice muttered to herself as she followed 
me in. 

I paid no attention to her. I was in my happy place. 

In my happy place, the whole wedding mess was over 
and done. Behind me. Already repressed and 
forgotten. 

We were alone, just Edward and me. The setting was 
fuzzy and constantly in flux — it morphed from misty 
forest to cloud-covered city to arctic night — because 
Edward was keeping the location of our honeymoon a 
secret to surprise me. But I wasn’t especially 
concerned about the where part. 



23 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward and I were together, and I’d fulfilled my side 
of our compromise perfectly. I’d married him. That 
was the big one. But I’d also accepted all his 
outrageous gifts and was registered, however futilely, 
to attend Dartmouth College in the fall. Now it was 
his turn. 

Before he turned me into a vampire — his big 
compromise — he had one other stipulation to make 
good on. 

Edward had an obsessive sort of concern over the 
human things that I would be giving up, the 
experiences he didn’t want me to miss. Most of 
them — like the prom, for example — seemed silly to 
me. There was only one human experience I worried 
about missing. Of course it would be the one he 
wished I would forget completely. Here was the thing, 
though. I knew a little about what I was going to be 
like when I wasn’t human anymore. I’d seen newborn 
vampires firsthand, and I’d heard all my family- to- 
be’s stories about those wild early days. For several 
years, my biggest personality trait was going to be 
thirsty. It would take some time before I could be me 
again. And even when I was in control of myself, I 
would never feel exactly the way I felt now. 

Human... and passionately in love. 

I wanted the complete experience before I traded in 
my warm, breakable, pheromoneriddled body for 
something beautiful, strong... and unknown. I wanted 
a real honeymoon with Edward. And, despite the 
danger he feared this would put me in, he’d agreed to 
try. 



24 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I was only vaguely aware of Alice and the slip and 
slide of satin over my skin. I didn’t care, for the 
moment, that the whole town was talking about me. I 
didn’t think about the spectacle I would have to star 
in much too soon. I didn’t worry about tripping on my 
train or giggling at the wrong moment or being too 
young or the staring audience or even the empty seat 
where my best friend should be. 

I was with Edward in my happy place. 



25 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





LONG NIGHT 



“I miss you already.” 

“I don’t need to leave. I can stay. . . .” 

“Mmm.” 

It was quiet for a long moment, just the thud of my 
heart hammering, the broken rhythm of our ragged 
breathing, and the whisper of our lips moving in 
synchronization. Sometimes it was so easy to forget 
that I was kissing a vampire. Not because he seemed 
ordinary or human — I could never for a second forget 
that I was holding someone more angel than man in 
my arms — but because he made it seem like nothing 
at all to have his lips against my lips, my face, my 
throat. He claimed he was long past the temptation 
my blood used to be for him, that the idea of losing 
me had cured him of any desire for it. But I knew the 
smell of my blood still caused him pain — still burned 
his throat like he was inhaling flames. 

I opened my eyes and found his open, too, staring at 
my face. It made no sense when he looked at me that 
way. Like I was the prize rather than the outrageously 
lucky winner. Our gazes locked for a moment; his 
golden eyes were so deep that I imagined I could see 
all the way into his soul. It seemed silly that this 
fact — the existence of his soul — 

had ever been in question, even if he was a vampire. 
He had the most beautiful soul, more beautiful than 



26 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



his brilliant mind or his incomparable face or his 
glorious body. He looked back at me as if he could see 
my soul, too, and as if he liked what he saw. He 
couldn’t see into my mind, though, the way he saw 
into everyone else’s. Who knew why — some strange 
glitch in my brain that made it immune to all the 
extraordinary and frightening things some immortals 
could do. (Only my mind was immune; my body was 
still subject to vampires with abilities that worked in 
ways other than Edward’s.) But I was seriously 
grateful to whatever malfunction it was that kept my 
thoughts a secret. It was just too embarrassing to 
consider the alternative. 

I pulled his face to mine again. 

“Definitely staying,” he murmured a moment later. 

“No, no. It’s your bachelor party. You have to go.” 

I said the words, but the fingers of my right hand 
locked into his bronze hair, my left pressed tighter 
against the small of his back. His cool hands stroked 
my face. 

“Bachelor parties are designed for those who are sad 
to see the passing of their single days. I couldn’t be 
more eager to have mine behind me. So there’s really 
no point.” 

“True.” I breathed against the winter-cold skin of his 
throat. 

This was pretty close to my happy place. Charlie slept 
obliviously in his room, which was almost as good as 
being alone. We were curled up on my small bed, 



27 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




intertwined as much as it was possible, considering 
the thick afghan I was swathed in like a cocoon. I 
hated the necessity of the blanket, but it sort of 
ruined the romance when my teeth started chattering. 
Charlie would notice if I turned the heat on in August. 
... At least, if I had to be bundled up, Edward’s shirt 
was on the floor. I never got over the shock of how 
perfect his body was — white, cool, and polished as 
marble. I ran my hand down his stone chest now, 
tracing across the flat planes of his stomach, just 
marveling. A light shudder rippled through him, and 
his mouth found mine again. Carefully, I let the tip of 
my tongue press against his glass-smooth lip, and he 
sighed. His sweet breath washed — cold and 
delicious — over my face. 

He started to pull away — that was his automatic 
response whenever he decided things had gone too 
far, his reflex reaction whenever he most wanted to 
keep going. Edward had spent most of his life 
rejecting any kind of physical gratification. I knew it 
was terrifying to him trying to change those habits 
now. 

“Wait,” I said, gripping his shoulders and hugging 
myself close to him. I kicked one leg free and wrapped 
it around his waist. “Practice makes perfect.” 

He chuckled. “Well, we should be fairly close to 
perfection by this point, then, shouldn’t we? Have you 
slept at all in the last month?” 

“But this is the dress rehearsal,” I reminded him, 

“and we’ve only practiced certain scenes. It’s no time 
for playing safe.” 



28 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I thought he would laugh, but he didn’t answer, and 
his body was motionless with sudden stress. The gold 
in his eyes seemed to harden from a liquid to a solid. I 
thought over my words, realized what he would have 
heard in them. 

“Bella...,” he whispered. 

“Don’t start this again,” I said. “A deal’s a deal.” 

“I don’t know. It’s too hard to concentrate when you’re 
with me like this. I — I can’t think straight. I won’t be 
able to control myself. You’ll get hurt.” 

“I’ll be fine.” 

“Bella ...” 

“Shh!” I pressed my lips to his to stop his panic 
attack. I’d heard it before. He wasn’t getting out of 
this deal. Not after insisting I marry him first. He 
kissed me back for a moment, but I could tell he 
wasn’t as into it as before. Worrying, always worrying. 
How different it would be when he didn’t need to 
worry about me anymore. What would he do with all 
his free time? He’d have to get a new hobby. 

“How are your feet?” he asked. 

Knowing he didn’t mean that literally, I answered, 
“Toasty warm.” 

“Really? No second thoughts? It’s not too late to 
change your mind.” 

“Are you trying to ditch me?” 



29 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He chuckled. “Just making sure. I don’t want you to 
do anything you’re not sure about.” 

“I’m sure about you. The rest I can live through.” 

He hesitated, and I wondered if I’d put my foot in my 
mouth again. 

“Can you?” he asked quietly. “I don’t mean the 
wedding — which I am positive you will survive despite 
your qualms — but afterward... what about Renee, 
what about Charlie?” 

I sighed. “I’ll miss them.” Worse, that they would miss 
me, but I didn’t want to give him any fuel. 

“Angela and Ben and Jessica and Mike.” 

“I’ll miss my friends, too.” I smiled in the darkness. 
“Especially Mike. Oh, Mike! How will I go on?” 

He growled. 

I laughed but then was serious. “Edward, we’ve been 
through this and through this. I know it will be hard, 
but this is what I want. I want you, and I want you 
forever. One lifetime is simply not enough for me.” 

“Frozen forever at eighteen,” he whispered. 

“Every woman’s dream come true,” I teased. 

“Never changing... never moving forward.” 

“What does that mean?” 

He answered slowly. “Do you remember when we told 
Charlie we were getting married? And he thought you 
were... pregnant?” 

30 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“And he thought about shooting you,” I guessed with 
a laugh. “Admit it — for one second, he honestly 
considered it.” 

He didn’t answer. 

“What, Edward?” 

“I just wish... well, I wish that he’d been right.” 

“Gah,” I gasped. 

“More that there was some way he could have been. 
That we had that kind of potential. I hate taking that 
away from you, too.” 

It took me a minute. “I know what I’m doing.” 

“How could you know that, Bella? Look at my mother, 
look at my sister. It’s not as easy a sacrifice as you 
imagine.” 

“Esme and Rosalie get by just fine. If it’s a problem 
later, we can do what Esme did — 

we’ll adopt.” 

He sighed, and then his voice was fierce. “It’s not 
right! I don’t want you to have to make sacrifices for 
me. I want to give you things, not take things away 
from you. I don’t want to steal your future. If I were 
human — ” 

I put my hand over his lips. “You are my future. Now 
stop. No moping, or I’m calling your brothers to come 
and get you. Maybe you need a bachelor party.” 

“I’m sorry. I am moping, aren’t I? Must be the nerves.” 



31 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Are your feet cold?” 

“Not in that sense. I’ve been waiting a century to 
marry you, Miss Swan. The wedding ceremony is the 
one thing I can’t wait — ” He broke off mid-thought. 
“Oh, for the love of all that’s holy!” 

“What’s wrong?” 

He gritted his teeth. “You don’t have to call my 
brothers. Apparently Emmett and Jasper are not 
going to let me bow out tonight.” 

I clutched him closer for one second and then 
released him. I didn’t have a prayer of winning a tug- 
of-war with Emmett. “Have fun.” 

There was a squeal against the window — someone 
deliberately scraping their steel nails across the glass 
to make a horrible, cover-your-ears, goose-bumps- 
down-your-spine noise. I shuddered. 

“If you don’t send Edward out,” Emmett — still 
invisible in the night — hissed menacingly, “we’re 
coming in after him!” 

“Go,” I laughed. “Before they break my house.” 

Edward rolled his eyes, but he got to his feet in one 
fluid movement and had his shirt back on in another. 
He leaned down and kissed my forehead. 

“Get to sleep. You’ve got a big day tomorrow.” 

“Thanks! That’s sure to help me wind down.” 

“I’ll meet you at the altar.” 



32 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll be the one in white.” I smiled at how perfectly 
blase I sounded. He chuckled, said, “Very 
convincing,” and then suddenly sank into a crouch, 
his muscles coiled like a spring. He vanished — 
launching himself out my window too swiftly for my 
eyes to follow. 

Outside, there was a muted thud, and I heard 
Emmett curse. 

“You’d better not make him late,” I murmured, 
knowing they could hear. And then Jasper’s face was 
peering in my window, his honey hair silver in the 
weak moonlight that worked through the clouds. 

“Don’t worry, Bella. We’ll get him home in plenty of 
time.” 

I was suddenly very calm, and my qualms all seemed 
unimportant. Jasper was, in his own way, just as 
talented as Alice with her uncannily accurate 
predictions. Jasper’s medium was moods rather than 
the future, and it was impossible to resist feeling the 
way he wanted you to feel. 

I sat up awkwardly, still tangled in my blanket. 
“Jasper? What do vampires do for bachelor parties? 
You’re not taking him to a strip club, are you?” 

“Don’t tell her anything!” Emmett growled from below. 
There was another thud, and Edward laughed quietly. 

“Relax,” Jasper told me — and I did. “We Cullens have 
our own version. Just a few mountain lions, a couple 
of grizzly bears. Pretty much an ordinary night out.” 



33 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I wondered if I would ever be able to sound so cavalier 
about the “vegetarian” vampire diet. 

“Thanks, Jasper.” 

He winked and dropped from sight. 

It was completely silent outside. Charlie’s muffled 
snores droned through the walls. I lay back against 
my pillow, sleepy now. I stared at the walls of my little 
room, bleached pale in the moonlight, from under 
heavy lids. 

My last night in my room. My last night as Isabella 
Swan. Tomorrow night, I would be Bella Cullen. 
Though the whole marriage ordeal was a thorn in my 
side, I had to admit that I liked the sound of that. 

I let my mind wander idly for a moment, expecting 
sleep to take me. But, after a few minutes, I found 
myself more alert, anxiety creeping back into my 
stomach, twisting it into uncomfortable positions. The 
bed seemed too soft, too warm without Edward in it. 
Jasper was far away, and all the peaceful, relaxed 
feelings were gone with him. It was going to be a very 
long day tomorrow. 

I was aware that most of my fears were stupid — I just 
had to get over myself. Attention was an inevitable 
part of life. I couldn’t always blend in with the 
scenery. However, I did have a few specific worries 
that were completely valid. 

First there was the wedding dress’s train. Alice clearly 
had let her artistic sense overpower practicalities on 
that one. Maneuvering the Cullens’ staircase in heels 



34 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




and a train sounded impossible. I should have 
practiced. 

Then there was the guest list. 

Tanya’s family, the Denali clan, would be arriving 
sometime before the ceremony. It would be touchy to 
have Tanya’s family in the same room with our guests 
from the Quileute reservation, Jacob’s father and the 
Clearwaters. The Denalis were no fans of the 
werewolves. In fact, Tanya’s sister Irina was not 
coming to the wedding at all. She still nursed a 
vendetta against the werewolves for killing her friend 
Laurent (just as he was about to kill me). Thanks to 
that grudge, the Denalis had abandoned Edward’s 
family in their worst hour of need. It had been the 
unlikely alliance with the Quileute wolves that had 
saved all our lives when the horde of newborn 
vampires had attacked. . 



Edward had promised me it wouldn’t be dangerous to 
have the Denalis near the Quileutes. Tanya and all 
her family — besides Irina — felt horribly guilty for that 
defection. A truce with the werewolves was a small 
price to make up some of that debt, a price they were 
prepared to pay. 

That was the big problem, but there was a small 
problem, too: my fragile self-esteem. I’d never seen 
Tanya before, but I was sure that meeting her 
wouldn’t be a pleasant experience for my ego. Once 
upon a time, before I was born probably, she’d made 
her play for Edward — not that I blamed her or anyone 
else for wanting him. Still, she would be beautiful at 
35 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the very least and magnificent at best. Though 
Edward clearly — if inconceivably — preferred me, I 
wouldn’t be able to help making comparisons. I had 
grumbled a little until Edward, who knew my 
weaknesses, made me feel guilty. 

“We’re the closest thing they have to family, Bella,” 
he’d reminded me. “They still feel like orphans, you 
know, even after all this time.” 

So I’d conceded, hiding my frown. 

Tanya had a big family now, almost as big as the 
Cullens. There were five of them; Tanya, Kate, and 
Irina had been joined by Carmen and Eleazar much 
the same way the Cullens had been joined by Alice 
and Jasper, all of them bonded by their desire to live 
more compassionately than normal vampires did. 

For all the company, though, Tanya and her sisters 
were still alone in one way. Still in mourning. Because 
a very long time ago, they’d had a mother, too. I could 
imagine the hole that loss would leave, even after a 
thousand years; I tried to visualize the Cullen family 
without their creator, their center, and their guide — 
their father, Carlisle. I couldn’t see it. 

Carlisle had explained Tanya’s history during one of 
the many nights I’d stayed late at the Cullens’ home, 
learning as much as I could, preparing as much as 
was possible for the future I’d chosen. Tanya’s 
mother’s story was one among many, a cautionary 
tale illustrating just one of the rules I would need to 
be aware of when I joined the immortal world. Only 
one rule, actually — one law that broke down into a 
thousand different facets: Keep the secret. 

36 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Keeping the secret meant a lot of things — living 
inconspicuously like the Cullens, moving on before 
humans could suspect they weren’t aging. Or keeping 
clear of humans altogether — except at mealtime — the 
way nomads like James and Victoria had lived; the 
way Jasper’s friends, Peter and Charlotte, still lived. It 
meant keeping control of whatever new vampires you 
created, like Jasper had done when he’d lived with 
Maria. Like Victoria had failed to do with her 
newborns. 

And it meant not creating some things in the first 
place, because some creations were uncontrollable. 

“I don’t know Tanya’s mother’s name,” Carlisle had 
admitted, his golden eyes, almost the exact shade of 
his fair hair, sad with remembering Tanya’s pain. 
“They never speak of her if they can avoid it, never 
think of her willingly. 

“The woman who created Tanya, Kate, and Irina — who 
loved them, I believe — lived many years before I was 
born, during a time of plague in our world, the plague 
of the immortal children. 

“What they were thinking, those ancient ones, I can’t 
begin to understand. They created vampires out of 
humans who were barely more than infants.” 

I’d had to swallow back the bile that rose in my throat 
as I’d pictured what he was describing. 

“They were very beautiful,” Carlisle had explained 
quickly, seeing my reaction. “So endearing, so 
enchanting, you can’t imagine. You had but to be 
near them to love them; it was an automatic thing. 



37 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“However, they could not be taught. They were frozen 
at whatever level of development they’d achieved 
before being bitten. Adorable two-year-olds with 
dimples and lisps that could destroy half a village in 
one of their tantrums. If they hungered, they fed, and 
no words of warning could restrain them. Humans 
saw them, stories circulated, fear spread like fire in 
dry brush. . . . 

“Tanya’s mother created such a child. As with the 
other ancients, I cannot fathom her reasons.” He’d 
taken a deep, steadying breath. “The Volturi became 
involved, of course.” 

I’d flinched as I always did at that name, but of 
course the legion of Italian vampires — 

royalty in their own estimation — was central to this 
story. There couldn’t be a law if there was no 
punishment; there couldn’t be a punishment if there 
was no one to deliver it. The ancients Aro, Caius, and 
Marcus ruled the Volturi forces; I’d only met them 
once, but in that brief encounter, it seemed to me 
that Aro, with his powerful mind-reading gift — one 
touch, and he knew every thought a mind had ever 
held — was the true leader. 

“The Volturi studied the immortal children, at home 
in Volterra and all around the world. Caius decided 
the young ones were incapable of protecting our 
secret. And so they had to be destroyed. 

“I told you they were loveable. Well, covens fought to 
the last man — were utterly decimated — to protect 
them. The carnage was not as widespread as the 
southern wars on this continent, but more 

38 | Page Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




devastating in its own way. Long-established covens, 
old traditions, friends... Much was lost. In the end, 
the practice was completely eliminated. The immortal 
children became unmentionable, a taboo. 

“When I lived with the Volturi, I met two immortal 
children, so I know firsthand the appeal they had. Aro 
studied the little ones for many years after the 
catastrophe they’d caused was over. You know his 
inquisitive disposition; he was hopeful that they could 
be tamed. But in the end, the decision was 
unanimous: the immortal children could not be 
allowed to exist.” 

I’d all but forgotten the Denali sisters’ mother when 
the story returned to her. 

“It is unclear precisely what happened with Tanya’s 
mother,” Carlisle had said. “Tanya, Kate, and Irina 
were entirely oblivious until the day the Volturi came 
for them, their mother and her illegal creation already 
their prisoners. It was ignorance that saved Tanya’s 
and her sisters’ lives. Aro touched them and saw their 
total innocence, so they were not punished with their 
mother. 

“None of them had ever seen the boy before, or 
dreamed of his existence, until the day they watched 
him burn in their mother’s arms. I can only guess 
that their mother had kept her secret to protect them 
from this exact outcome. But why had she created 
him in the first place? Who was he, and what had he 
meant to her that would cause her to cross this most 
uncrossable of lines? Tanya and the others never 
received an answer to any of these questions. But 



39 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




they could not doubt their mother’s guilt, and I don’t 
think they’ve ever truly forgiven her. 

“Even with Aro’s perfect assurance that Tanya, Kate, 
and Irina were innocent, Caius wanted them to burn. 
Guilty by association. They were lucky that Aro felt 
like being merciful that day. Tanya and her sisters 
were pardoned, but left with unhealing hearts and a 
very healthy respect for the law. ...” 

I’m not sure where exactly the memory turned into a 
dream. One moment it seemed that I was listening to 
Carlisle in my memory, looking at his face, and then a 
moment later I was looking at a gray, barren field and 
smelling the thick scent of burning incense in the air. 

I was not alone there. 

The huddle of figures in the center of the field, all 
shrouded in ashy cloaks, should have terrified me — 
they could only be Volturi, and I was, against what 
they’d decreed at our last meeting, still human. But I 
knew, as I sometimes did in dreams, that I was 
invisible to them. 

Scattered all around me were smoking heaps. I 
recognized the sweetness in the air and did not 
examine the mounds too closely. I had no desire to 
see the faces of the vampires they had executed, half 
afraid that I might recognize someone in the 
smoldering pyres. The Volturi soldiers stood in a 
circle around something or someone, and I heard 
their whispery voices raised in agitation. I edged 
closer to the cloaks, compelled by the dream to see 
whatever thing or person they were examining with 
such intensity. Creeping carefully between two of the 



40 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




tall hissing shrouds, I finally saw the object of their 
debate, raised up on a little hillock above them. 

He was beautiful, adorable, just as Carlisle had 
described. The boy was a toddler still, maybe two 
years of age. Light brown curls framed his cherubic 
face with its round cheeks and full lips. And he was 
trembling, his eyes closed as if he was too frightened 
to watch death coming closer every second. 

I was struck with such a powerful need to save the 
lovely, terrified child that the Volturi, despite all their 
devastating menace, no longer mattered to me. I 
shoved past them, not caring if they realized my 
presence. Breaking free of them altogether, I sprinted 
toward the boy. 

Only to stagger to a halt as I got a clear view of the 
hillock that he sat upon. It was not earth and rock, 
but a pile of human bodies, drained and lifeless. Too 
late not to see these faces. I knew them all — Angela, 
Ben, Jessica, Mike.... And directly beneath the 
adorable boy were the bodies of my father and my 
mother. 

The child opened his bright, bloodred eyes. 



41 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




BIG DAY 



My own eyes flew open. 

I lay shivering and gasping in my warm bed for 
several minutes, trying to break free of the dream. 

The sky outside my window turned gray and then 
pale pink while I waited for my heart to slow. 

When I was fully back to the reality of my messy, 
familiar room, I was a little annoyed with myself. 
What a dream to have the night before my wedding! 
That’s what I got for obsessing over disturbing stories 
in the middle of the night. 

Eager to shake off the nightmare, I got dressed and 
headed down to the kitchen long before I needed to. 
First I cleaned the already tidy rooms, and then when 
Charlie was up I made him pancakes. I was much too 
keyed up to have any interest in eating breakfast 
myself — I sat bouncing in my seat while he ate. 

“You’re picking up Mr. Weber at three o’clock,” I 
reminded him. 

“I don’t have that much to do today besides bring the 
minister, Bells. I’m not likely to forget my only job.” 
Charlie had taken the entire day off for the wedding, 
and he was definitely at loose ends. Now and then, 
his eyes flickered furtively to the closet under the 
stairs, where he kept his fishing gear. 

“That’s not your only job. You also have to be dressed 
and presentable.” 

42 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



He scowled into his cereal bowl and muttered the 
words “monkey suit” under his breath. 

There was a brisk tapping on the front door. 

“You think you have it bad,” I said, grimacing as I 
rose. “Alice will be working on me all day long.” 

Charlie nodded thoughtfully, conceding that he did 
have the lesser ordeal. I ducked in to kiss the top of 
his head as I passed — he blushed and harrumph ed — 
and then continued on to get the door for my best 
girlfriend and soon-to-be sister. Alice’s short black 
hair was not in its usual spiky do — it was smoothed 
into sleek pin curls around her pixie face, which wore 
a contrastingly businesslike expression. She dragged 
me from the house with barely a “Hey, Charlie” called 
over her shoulder. Alice appraised me as I got into her 
Porsche. 

“Oh, hell, look at your eyes!” She tsk ed in reproach. 
“What did you do? Stay up all night?” 

“Almost.” 

She glowered. “I’ve only allotted so much time to 
make you stunning, Bella — you might have taken 
better care of my raw material.” 

“No one expects me to be stunning. I think the bigger 
problem is that I might fall asleep during the 
ceremony and not be able to say ‘I do’ at the right 
part, and then Edward will make his escape.” 

She laughed. “I’ll throw my bouquet at you when it 
gets close.” 



43 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thanks.” 



“At least you’ll have plenty of time to sleep on the 
plane tomorrow.” 

I raised one eyebrow. Tomorrow, I mused. If we were 
heading out tonight after the reception, and we would 
still be on a plane tomorrow... well, we weren’t going 
to Boise, Idaho. Edward hadn’t dropped a single hint. 

I wasn’t too stressed about the mystery, but it was 
strange not knowing where I would be sleeping 
tomorrow night. Or hopefully not sleeping . . . 

Alice realized that she’d given something away, and 
she frowned. 

“You’re all packed and ready,” she said to distract me. 

It worked. “Alice, I wish you would let me pack my 
own things!” 

“It would have given too much away.” 

“And denied you an opportunity to shop.” 

“You’ll be my sister officially in ten short hours... it’s 
about time to get over this aversion to new clothes.” 

I glowered groggily out the windshield until we were 
almost to the house. 

“Is he back yet?” I asked. 

“Don’t worry, he’ll be there before the music starts. 
But you don’t get to see him, no matter when he gets 
back. We’re doing this the traditional way.” 

I snorted. “Traditional!” 



44 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay, aside from the bride and groom.” 

“You know he’s already peeked.” 

“Oh no — that’s why I’m the only one who’s seen you in 
the dress. I’ve been very careful to not think about it 
when he’s around.” 

“Well,” I said as we turned into the drive, “I see you 
got to reuse your graduation decorations.” Three 
miles of drive were once again wrapped in hundreds 
of thousands of twinkle lights. This time, she’d added 
white satin bows. 

“Waste not, want not. Enjoy this, because you don’t 
get to see the inside decorations until it’s time.” She 
pulled into the cavernous garage north of the main 
house; Emmett’s big Jeep was still gone. 

“Since when is the bride not allowed to see the 
decorations?” I protested. 

“Since she put me in charge. I want you to get the full 
impact coming down the stairs.” 

She clapped her hand over my eyes before she let me 
inside the kitchen. I was immediately assailed by the 
scent. 

“What is that?” I wondered as she guided me into the 
house. 

“Is it too much?” Alice’s voice was abruptly worried. 
“You’re the first human in here; I hope I got it right.” 

“It smells wonderful!” I assured her — almost 
intoxicating, but not at all overwhelming, the balance 



45 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




of the different fragrances was subtle and flawless. 
“Orange blossoms... 

lilac... and something else — am I right?” 

“Very good, Bella. You only missed the freesia and the 
roses.” 

She didn’t uncover my eyes until we were in her 
oversized bathroom. I stared at the long counter, 
covered in all the paraphernalia of a beauty salon, 
and began to feel my sleepless night. 

“Is this really necessary? I’m going to look plain next 
to him no matter what.” 

She pushed me down into a low pink chair. “No one 
will dare to call you plain when I’m through with 
you.” 

“Only because they’re afraid you’ll suck their blood,” I 
muttered. I leaned back in the chair and closed my 
eyes, hoping I’d be able to nap through it. I did drift in 
and out a little bit while she masked, buffed, and 
polished every surface of my body. It was after 
lunchtime when Rosalie glided past the bathroom 
door in a shimmery silver gown with her golden hair 
piled up in a soft crown on top of her head. She was 
so beautiful it made me want to cry. What was even 
the point of dressing up with Rosalie around? 

“They’re back,” Rosalie said, and immediately my 
childish fit of despair passed. Edward was home. 

“Keep him out of here!” 



46 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“He won’t cross you today,” Rosalie reassured her. 

“He values his life too much. Esme’s got them 
finishing things up out back. Do you want some help? 
I could do her hair.” 

My jaw fell open. I floundered around in my head, 
trying to remember how to close it. I had never been 
Rosalie’s favorite person in the world. Then, making 
things even more strained between us, she was 
personally offended by the choice I was making now. 
Though she had her impossible beauty, her loving 
family, and her soul mate in Emmett, she would have 
traded it all to be human. And here I was, callously 
throwing away everything she wanted in life like it 
was garbage. It didn’t exactly warm her to me. 

“Sure,” Alice said easily. “You can start braiding. I 
want it intricate. The veil goes here, underneath.” Her 
hands started combing through my hair, hefting it, 
twisting it, illustrating in detail what she wanted. 
When she was done, Rosalie’s hands replaced hers, 
shaping my hair with a feather-light touch. Alice 
moved back to my face. Once Rosalie received Alice’s 
commendation on my hair, she was sent off to retrieve 
my dress and then to locate Jasper, who had been 
dispatched to pick up my mother and her husband, 
Phil, from their hotel. Downstairs, I could faintly hear 
the door opening and closing over and over. Voices 
began to float up to us. 

Alice made me stand so that she could ease the dress 
over my hair and makeup. My knees shook so badly 
as she fastened the long line of pearl buttons up my 
back that the satin quivered in little wavelets down to 
the floor. 



47 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Deep breaths, Bella,” Alice said. “And try to lower 
your heart rate. You’re going to sweat off your new 
face.” 

I gave her the best sarcastic expression I could 
manage. “I’ll get right on that.” 

“I have to get dressed now. Can you hold yourself 
together for two minutes?” 

“Urn... maybe?” 

She rolled her eyes and darted out the door. 

I concentrated on my breathing, counting each 
movement of my lungs, and stared at the patterns 
that the bathroom light made on the shiny fabric of 
my skirt. I was afraid to look in the mirror — afraid the 
image of myself in the wedding dress would send me 
over the edge into a full-scale panic attack. 

Alice was back before I had taken two hundred 
breaths, in a dress that flowed down her slender body 
like a silvery waterfall. 

“Alice — wow.” 

“It’s nothing. No one will be looking at me today. Not 
while you’re in the room.” 

“Har har.” 

“Now, are you in control of yourself, or do I have to 
bring Jasper up here?” 

“They’re back? Is my mom here?” 

“She just walked in the door. She’s on her way up.” 



48 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Renee had flown in two days ago, and I’d spent every 
minute I could with her — every minute that I could 
pry her away from Esme and the decorations, in other 
words. As far as I could tell, she was having more fun 
with this than a kid locked inside Disneyland 
overnight. In a way, I felt almost as cheated as 
Charlie. All that wasted terror over her reaction . . . 

“Oh, Bella!” she squealed now, gushing before she 
was all the way through the door. 

“Oh, honey, you’re so beautiful! Oh, I’m going to cry! 
Alice, you’re amazing! You and Esme should go into 
business as wedding planners. Where did you find 
this dress? It’s gorgeous! So graceful, so elegant. 

Bella, you look like you just stepped out of an Austen 
movie.” My mother’s voice sounded a little distance 
away, and everything in the room was slightly blurry. 
“Such a creative idea, designing the theme around 
Bella’s ring. So romantic! To think it’s been in 
Edward’s family since the eighteen hundreds!” 

Alice and I exchanged a brief conspiratorial look. My 
mom was off on the dress style by more than a 
hundred years. The wedding wasn’t actually centered 
around the ring, but around Edward himself. 

There was a loud, gruff throat-clearing in the 
doorway. 

“Renee, Esme said it’s time you got settled down 
there,” Charlie said. 

“Well, Charlie, don’t you look dashing!” Renee said in 
a tone that was almost shocked. That might have 
explained the crustiness of Charlie’s answer. 



49 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alice got to me.” 

“Is it really time already?” Renee said to herself, 
sounding almost as nervous as I felt. 

“This has all gone so fast. I feel dizzy.” 

That made two of us. 

“Give me a hug before I go down,” Renee insisted. 
“Carefully now, don’t tear anything.” 

My mother squeezed me gently around the waist, then 
wheeled for the door, only to complete the spin and 
face me again. 

“Oh goodness, I almost forgot! Charlie, where’s the 
box?” 

My dad rummaged in his pockets for a minute and 
then produced a small white box, which he handed to 
Renee. Renee lifted the lid and held it out to me. 

“Something blue,” she said. 

“Something old, too. They were your Grandma 
Swan’s,” Charlie added. “We had a jeweler replace the 
paste stones with sapphires.” 

Inside the box were two heavy silver hair combs. Dark 
blue sapphires were clustered into intricate floral 
shapes atop the teeth. 

My throat got all thick. “Mom, Dad... you shouldn’t 
have.” 



50 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alice wouldn’t let us do anything else,” Renee said. 
“Every time we tried, she all but ripped our throats 
out.” 

A hysterical giggle burst through my lips. 

Alice stepped up and quickly slid both combs into my 
hair under the edge of the thick braids. “That’s 
something old and something blue,” Alice mused, 
taking a few steps back to admire me. “And your 
dress is new... so here — ” 

She flicked something at me. I held my hands out 
automatically, and the filmy white garter landed in 
my palms. 

“That’s mine and I want it back,” Alice told me. 

I blushed. 

“There,” Alice said with satisfaction. “A little color — 
that’s all you needed. You are officially perfect.” With 
a little self-congratulatory smile, she turned to my 
parents. 

“Renee, you need to get downstairs.” 

“Yes, ma’am.” Renee blew me a kiss and hurried out 
the door. 

“Charlie, would you grab the flowers, please?” 

While Charlie was out of the room, Alice hooked the 
garter out of my hands and then ducked under my 
skirt. I gasped and tottered as her cold hand caught 
my ankle; she yanked the garter into place. 



51 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She was back on her feet before Charlie returned with 
the two frothy white bouquets. The scent of roses and 
orange blossom and freesia enveloped me in a soft 
mist. Rosalie — the best musician in the family next to 
Edward — began playing the piano downstairs. 
Pachelbel’s Canon. I began hyperventilating. 

“Easy, Bells,” Charlie said. He turned to Alice 
nervously. “She looks a little sick. Do you think she’s 
going to make it?” 

His voice sounded far away. I couldn’t feel my legs. 
“She’d better.” 

Alice stood right in front of me, on her tiptoes to 
better stare me in the eye, and gripped my wrists in 
her hard hands. 

“Focus, Bella. Edward is waiting for you down there.” 

I took a deep breath, willing myself into composure. 

The music slowly morphed into a new song. Charlie 
nudged me. “Bells, we’re up to bat.” 

“Bella?” Alice asked, still holding my gaze. 

“Yes,” I squeaked. “Edward. Okay.” I let her pull me 
from the room, with Charlie tagging along at my 
elbow. 

The music was louder in the hall. It floated up the 
stairs along with the fragrance of a million flowers. I 
concentrated on the idea of Edward waiting below to 
get my feet to shuffle forward. 



52 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The music was familiar, Wagner’s traditional march 
surrounded by a flood of embellishments. 

“It’s my turn,” Alice chimed. “Count to five and follow 
me.” She began a slow, graceful dance down the 
staircase. I should have realized that having Alice as 
my only bridesmaid was a mistake. I would look that 
much more uncoordinated coming behind her. 

A sudden fanfare trilled through the soaring music. I 
recognized my cue. 

“Don’t let me fall, Dad,” I whispered. Charlie pulled 
my hand through his arm and then grasped it tightly. 

One step at a time, I told myself as we began to 
descend to the slow tempo of the march. I didn’t lift 
my eyes until my feet were safely on the flat ground, 
though I could hear the murmurs and rustling of the 
audience as I came into view. Blood flooded my 
cheeks at the sound; of course I could be counted on 
to be the blushing bride. As soon as my feet were past 
the treacherous stairs, I was looking for him. For a 
brief second, I was distracted by the profusion of 
white blossoms that hung in garlands from everything 
in the room that wasn’t alive, dripping with long lines 
of white gossamer ribbons. But I tore my eyes from 
the bowery canopy and searched across the rows of 
satin-draped chairs — blushing more deeply as I took 
in the crowd of faces all focused on me — until I found 
him at last, standing before an arch overflowing with 
more flowers, more gossamer. 

I was barely conscious that Carlisle stood by his side, 
and Angela’s father behind them both. I didn’t see my 
mother where she must have been sitting in the front 

53 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




row, or my new family, or any of the guests — they 
would have to wait till later. All I really saw was 
Edward’s face; it filled my vision and overwhelmed my 
mind. His eyes were a buttery, burning gold; his 
perfect face was almost severe with the depth of his 
emotion. And then, as he met my awed gaze, he broke 
into a breathtaking smile of exultation. 

Suddenly, it was only the pressure of Charlie’s hand 
on mine that kept me from sprinting headlong down 
the aisle. 

The march was too slow as I struggled to pace my 
steps to its rhythm. Mercifully, the aisle was very 
short. And then, at last, at last, I was there. Edward 
held out his hand. Charlie took my hand and, in a 
symbol as old as the world, placed it in Edward’s. I 
touched the cool miracle of his skin, and I was home. 

Our vows were the simple, traditional words that had 
been spoken a million times, though never by a 
couple quite like us. We’d asked Mr. Weber to make 
only one small change. He obligingly traded the line 
“till death do us part” for the more appropriate “as 
long as we both shall live.” 

In that moment, as the minister said his part, my 
world, which had been upside down for so long now, 
seemed to settle into its proper position. I saw just 
how silly I’d been for fearing this — as if it were an 
unwanted birthday gift or an embarrassing exhibition, 
like the prom. I looked into Edward’s shining, 
triumphant eyes and knew that I was winning, too. 
Because nothing else mattered but that I could stay 



54 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




with him. I didn’t realize I was crying until it was time 
to say the binding words. 

“I do,” I managed to choke out in a nearly 
unintelligible whisper, blinking my eyes clear so I 
could see his face. 

When it was his turn to speak, the words rang clear 
and victorious. 

“I do,” he vowed. 

Mr. Weber declared us husband and wife, and then 
Edward’s hands reached up to cradle my face, 
carefully, as if it were as delicate as the white petals 
swaying above our heads. I tried to comprehend, 
through the film of tears blinding me, the surreal fact 
that this amazing person was mine. His golden eyes 
looked as if they would have tears, too, if such a thing 
were not impossible. He bent his head toward mine, 
and I stretched up on the tips of my toes, throwing 
my arms — bouquet and all — around his neck. He 
kissed me tenderly, adoringly; I forgot the crowd, the 
place, the time, the reason... 

only remembering that he loved me, that he wanted 
me, that I was his. He began the kiss, and he had to 
end it; I clung to him, ignoring the titters and the 
throat-clearing in the audience. Finally, his hands 
restrained my face and he pulled back 

— too soon — to look at me. On the surface his sudden 
smile was amused, almost a smirk. But underneath 
his momentary entertainment at my public exhibition 
was a deep joy that echoed my own. 



55 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The crowd erupted into applause, and he turned our 
bodies to face our friends and family. I couldn’t look 
away from his face to see them. 

My mother’s arms were the first to find me, her tear- 
streaked face the first thing I saw when I finally tore 
my eyes unwillingly from Edward. And then I was 
handed through the crowd, passed from embrace to 
embrace, only vaguely aware of who held me, my 
attention centered on Edward’s hand clutched tightly 
in my own. I did recognize the difference between the 
soft, warm hugs of my human friends and the gentle, 
cool embraces of my new family. 

One scorching hug stood out from all the others — 
Seth Clearwater had braved the throng of vampires to 
stand in for my lost werewolf friend. 



56 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




GESTURE 



The wedding flowed into the reception party 
smoothly — proof of Alice’s flawless planning. It was 
just twilight over the river; the ceremony had lasted 
exactly the right amount of time, allowing the sun to 
set behind the trees. The lights in the trees glimmered 
as Edward led me through the glass back doors, 
making the white flowers glow. There were another 
ten thousand flowers out here, serving as a fragrant, 
airy tent over the dance floor set up on the grass 
under two of the ancient cedars. Things slowed down, 
relaxed as the mellow August evening surrounded us. 
The little crowd spread out under the soft shine of the 
twinkle lights, and we were greeted again by the 
friends we’d just embraced. There was time to talk 
now, to laugh. 

“Congrats, guys,” Seth Clearwater told us, ducking 
his head under the edge of a flower garland. His 
mother, Sue, was tight by his side, eyeing the guests 
with wary intensity. Her face was thin and fierce, an 
expression that was accented by her short, severe 
hairstyle; it was as short as her daughter Leah’s — I 
wondered if she’d cut it the same way in a show of 
solidarity. Billy Black, on Seth’s other side, was not 
as tense as Sue. When I looked at Jacob’s father, I 
always felt like I was seeing two people rather than 
just one. There was the old man in the wheelchair 
with the lined face and the white smile that everyone 
else saw. And then there was the direct descendant of 
a long line of powerful, magical chieftains, cloaked in 
57 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



the authority he’d been born with. Though the magic 
had — in the absence of a catalyst — skipped his 
generation, Billy was still a part of the power and the 
legend. It flowed straight through him. It flowed to his 
son, the heir to the magic, who had turned his back 
on it. That left Sam Uley to act as the chief of legends 
and magic now. . . . 

Billy seemed oddly at ease considering the company 
and the event — his black eyes sparkled like he’d just 
gotten some good news. I was impressed by his 
composure. This wedding must have seemed a very 
bad thing, the worst thing that could happen to his 
best friend’s daughter, in Billy’s eyes. 

I knew it wasn’t easy for him to restrain his feelings, 
considering the challenge this event foreshadowed to 
the ancient treaty between the Cullens and the 
Quileutes — the treaty that prohibited the Cullens 
from ever creating another vampire. The wolves knew 
a breach was coming, but the Cullens had no idea 
how they would react. Before the alliance, it would 
have meant an immediate attack. A war. But now that 
they knew each other better, would there be 
forgiveness instead? 

As if in response to that thought, Seth leaned toward 
Edward, arms extended. Edward returned the hug 
with his free arm. 

I saw Sue shudder delicately. 

“It’s good to see things work out for you, man,” Seth 
said. “I’m happy for you.” 



58 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thank you, Seth. That means a lot to me.” Edward 
pulled away from Seth and looked at Sue and Billy. 
“Thank you, as well. For letting Seth come. For 
supporting Bella today.” 

“You’re welcome,” Billy said in his deep, gravelly 
voice, and I was surprised at the optimism in his 
tone. Perhaps a stronger truce was on the horizon. A 
bit of a line was forming, so Seth waved goodbye and 
wheeled Billy toward the food. Sue kept one hand on 
each of them. 

Angela and Ben were the next to claim us, followed by 
Angela’s parents and then Mike and Jessica — who 
were, to my surprise, holding hands. I hadn’t heard 
that they were together again. That was nice. 

Behind my human friends were my new cousins-in- 
law, the Denali vampire clan. I realized I was holding 
my breath as the vampire in front — Tanya, I assumed 
from the strawberry tint in her blond curls — reached 
out to embrace Edward. Next to her, three other 
vampires with golden eyes stared at me with open 
curiosity. One woman had long, pale blond hair, 
straight as corn silk. The other woman and the man 
beside her were both black-haired, with a hint of an 
olive tone to their chalky complexions. And they were 
all four so beautiful that it made my stomach hurt. 
Tanya was still holding Edward. 

“Ah, Edward,” she said. “I’ve missed you.” 

Edward chuckled and deftly maneuvered out of the 
hug, placing his hand lightly on her shoulder and 
stepping back, as if to get a better look at her. “It’s 
been too long, Tanya. You look well.” 

59 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“So do you.” 

“Let me introduce you to my wife.” It was the first 
time Edward had said that word since it was officially 
true; he seemed like he would explode with 
satisfaction saying it now. The Denalis all laughed 
lightly in response. “Tanya, this is my Bella.” 

Tanya was every bit as lovely as my worst nightmares 
had predicted. She eyed me with a look that was 
much more speculative than it was resigned, and 
then reached out to take my hand. 

“Welcome to the family, Bella.” She smiled, a little 
rueful. “We consider ourselves Carlisle’s extended 
family, and I am sorry about the, er, recent incident 
when we did not behave as such. We should have met 
you sooner. Can you forgive us?” 

“Of course,” I said breathlessly. “It’s so nice to meet 
you.” 

“The Cullens are all evened up in numbers now. 
Perhaps it will be our turn next, eh, Kate?” She 
grinned at the blonde. 

“Keep the dream alive,” Kate said with a roll of her 
golden eyes. She took my hand from Tanya’s and 
squeezed it gently. “Welcome, Bella.” 

The dark-haired woman put her hand on top of 
Kate’s. “I’m Carmen, this is Eleazar. We’re all so very 
pleased to finally meet you.” 

“M-me, too,” I stuttered. 



60 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Tanya glanced at the people waiting behind her — 
Charlie’s deputy, Mark, and his wife. Their eyes were 
huge as they took in the Denali clan. 

“Well get to know each other later. We’ll have eons of 
time for that!” Tanya laughed as she and her family 
moved on. 

All the standard traditions were kept. I was blinded 
by flashbulbs as we held the knife over a spectacular 
cake — too grand, I thought, for our relatively intimate 
group of friends and family. We took turns shoving 
cake in each other’s faces; Edward manfully 
swallowed his portion as I watched in disbelief. I 
threw my bouquet with atypical skill, right into 
Angela’s surprised hands. Emmett and Jasper howled 
with laughter at my blush while Edward removed my 
borrowed garter — which I’d shimmied down nearly to 
my ankle — very carefully with his teeth. With a quick 
wink at me, he shot it straight into Mike Newton’s 
face. 

And when the music started, Edward pulled me into 
his arms for the customary first dance; I went 
willingly, despite my fear of dancing — especially 
dancing in front of an audience — just happy to have 
him holding me. He did all the work, and I twirled 
effortlessly under the glow of a canopy of lights and 
the bright flashes from the cameras. 

“Enjoying the party, Mrs. Cullen?” he whispered in 
my ear. 

I laughed. “That will take a while to get used to.” 



61 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“We have a while,” he reminded me, his voice 
exultant, and he leaned down to kiss me while we 
danced. Cameras clicked feverishly. 

The music changed, and Charlie tapped on Edward’s 
shoulder. 

It wasn’t nearly as easy to dance with Charlie. He was 
no better at it than I was, so we moved safely from 
side to side in a tiny square formation. Edward and 
Esme spun around us like Fred Astaire and Ginger 
Rogers. 

“I’m going to miss you at home, Bella. I’m already 
lonely.” 

I spoke through a tight throat, trying to make a joke 
of it. “I feel just horrible, leaving you to cook for 
yourself — it’s practically criminal negligence. You 
could arrest me.” 

He grinned. “I suppose I’ll survive the food. Just call 
me whenever you can.” 

“I promise.” 

It seemed like I danced with everyone. It was good to 
see all my old friends, but I really wanted to be with 
Edward more than anything else. I was happy when 
he finally cut in, just half a minute after a new dance 
started. 

“Still not that fond of Mike, eh?” I commented as 
Edward whirled me away from him. 

“Not when I have to listen to his thoughts. He’s lucky 
I didn’t kick him out. Or worse.” 



62 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, right.” 

“Have you had a chance to look at yourself?” 

“Urn. No, I guess not. Why?” 

“Then I suppose you don’t realize how utterly, heart - 
breakingly beautiful you are tonight. I’m not 
surprised Mike’s having difficulty with improper 
thoughts about a married woman. I am disappointed 
that Alice didn’t make sure you were forced to look in 
a mirror.” 

“You are very biased, you know.” 

He sighed and then paused and turned me around to 
face the house. The wall of glass reflected the party 
back like a long mirror. Edward pointed to the couple 
in the mirror directly across from us. 

“Biased, am I?” 

I caught just a glimpse of Edward’s reflection — a 
perfect duplicate of his perfect face — 

with a dark-haired beauty at his side. Her skin was 
cream and roses, her eyes were huge with excitement 
and framed with thick lashes. The narrow sheath of 
the shimmering white dress flared out subtly at the 
train almost like an inverted calla lily, cut so skillfully 
that her body looked elegant and graceful — while it 
was motionless, at least. Before I could blink and 
make the beauty turn back into me, Edward suddenly 
stiffened and turned automatically in the other 
direction, as if someone had called his name. 



63 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh!” he said. His brow furrowed for an instant and 
then smoothed out just as quickly. Suddenly, he was 
smiling a brilliant smile. 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“A surprise wedding gift.” 

“Huh?” 

He didn’t answer; he just started dancing again, 
spinning me the opposite way we’d been headed 
before, away from the lights and then into the deep 
swath of night that ringed the luminous dance floor. 

He didn’t pause until we reached the dark side of one 
of the huge cedars. Then Edward looked straight into 
the blackest shadow. 

“Thank you,” Edward said to the darkness. “This is 
very... kind of you.” 

“Kind is my middle name,” a husky familiar voice 
answered from the black night. “Can I cut in?” 

My hand flew up to my throat, and if Edward hadn’t 
been holding me I would have collapsed. 

“Jacob!” I choked as soon as I could breathe. “Jacob!” 

“Hey there, Bells.” 

I stumbled toward the sound of his voice. Edward 
kept his grip under my elbow until another set of 
strong hands caught me in the darkness. The heat 
from Jacob’s skin burned right through the thin satin 
dress as he pulled me close. He made no effort to 
dance; he just hugged me while I buried my face in 



64 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




his chest. He leaned down to press his cheek to the 
top of my head. 

“Rosalie won’t forgive me if she doesn’t get her official 
turn on the dance floor,” 

Edward murmured, and I knew he was leaving us, 
giving me a gift of his own — this moment with Jacob. 

“Oh, Jacob.” I was crying now; I couldn’t get the 
words out clearly. “Thank you.” 

“Stop blubbering, Bella. You’ll ruin your dress. It’s 
just me.” 

“Just? Oh, Jake! Everything is perfect now.” 

He snorted. “Yeah — the party can start. The best man 
finally made it.” 

“Now everyone I love is here.” 

I felt his lips brush my hair. “Sorry I’m late, honey.” 
“I’m just so happy you came!” 

“That was the idea.” 

I glanced toward the guests, but I couldn’t see 
through the dancers to the spot where I’d last seen 
Jacob’s father. I didn’t know if he’d stayed. “Does 
Billy know you’re here?” 

As soon as I asked, I knew that he must have — it was 
the only way to explain his uplifted expression before. 

“I’m sure Sam’s told him. I’ll go see him when... when 
the party’s over.” 



65 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“He’ll be so glad you’re home.” 

Jacob pulled back a little bit and straightened up. He 
left one hand on the small of my back and grabbed 
my right hand with the other. He cradled our hands 
to his chest; I could feel his heart beat under my 
palm, and I guessed that he hadn’t placed my hand 
there accidentally. 

“I don’t know if I get more than just this one dance,” 
he said, and he began pulling me around in a slow 
circle that didn’t match the tempo of the music 
coming from behind us. 

“I’d better make the best of it.” 

We moved to the rhythm of his heart under my hand. 

“I’m glad I came,” Jacob said quietly after a moment. 
“I didn’t think I would be. But it’s good to see you... 
one more time. Not as sad as I’d thought it would be.” 

“I don’t want you to feel sad.” 

“I know that. And I didn’t come tonight to make you 
feel guilty.” 

“No — it makes me very happy that you came. It’s the 
best gift you could have given me.” 

He laughed. “That’s good, because I didn’t have time 
to stop for a real present.” 

My eyes were adjusting, and I could see his face now, 
higher up than I expected. Was it possible that he 
was still growing? He had to be closer to seven feet 
than to six. It was a relief to see his familiar features 



66 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




again after all this time — his deep-set eyes shadowed 
under his shaggy black brows, his high cheekbones, 
his full lips stretched over his bright teeth in the 
sarcastic smile that matched his tone. His eyes were 
tight around the edges — careful; I could see that he 
was being very careful tonight. He was doing all he 
could to make me happy, to not slip and show how 
much this cost him. I’d never done anything good 
enough to deserve a friend like Jacob. 

“When did you decide to come back?” 

“Consciously or subconsciously?” He took a deep 
breath before he answered his own question. “I don’t 
really know. I guess I’ve been wandering back this 
direction for a while, and maybe it’s because I was 
headed here. But it wasn’t until this morning that I 
really started running. I didn’t know if I could make 
it.” He laughed. “You wouldn’t believe how weird this 
feels — walking around on two legs again. And clothes! 
And then it’s more bizarre because it feels weird. I 
didn’t expect that. I’m out of practice with the whole 
human thing.” 

We revolved steadily. 

“It would have been a shame to miss seeing you like 
this, though. That’s worth the trip right there. You 
look unbelievable, Bella. So beautiful.” 

“Alice invested a lot of time in me today. The dark 
helps, too.” 

“It’s not so dark for me, you know.” 



67 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Right.” Werewolf senses. It was easy to forget all the 
things he could do, he seemed so human. Especially 
right now. 

“You cut your hair,” I noted. 

“Yeah. Easier, you know. Thought I’d better take 
advantage of the hands.” 

“It looks good,” I lied. 

He snorted. “Right. I did it myself, with rusty kitchen 
shears.” He grinned widely for a moment, and then 
his smile faded. His expression turned serious. “Are 
you happy, Bella?” 

“Yes.” 

“Okay.” I felt his shoulders shrug. “That’s the main 
thing, I guess.” 

“How are you, Jacob? Really?” 

“I’m fine, Bella, really. You don’t need to worry about 
me anymore. You can stop bugging Seth.” 

“I’m not just bugging him because of you. I like Seth.” 

“He’s a good kid. Better company than some. I tell 
you, if I could get rid of the voices in my head, being a 
wolf would be about perfect.” 

I laughed at the way it sounded. “Yeah, I can’t get 
mine to shut up, either.” 

“In your case, that would mean you’re insane. Of 
course, I already knew that you were insane,” he 
teased. 



68 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thanks.” 



“Insanity is probably easier than sharing a pack 
mind. Crazy people’s voices don’t send babysitters to 
watch them.” 

“Huh?” 

“Sam’s out there. And some of the others. Just in 
case, you know.” 

“In case of what?” 

“In case I can’t keep it together, something like that. 

In case I decide to trash the party.” 

He flashed a quick smile at what was probably an 
appealing thought to him. “But I’m not here to ruin 
your wedding, Bella. I’m here to . . .” He trailed off. 

“To make it perfect.” 

“That’s a tall order.” 

“Good thing you’re so tall.” 

He groaned at my bad joke and then sighed. “I’m just 
here to be your friend. Your best friend, one last 
time.” 

“Sam should give you more credit.” 

“Well, maybe I’m being oversensitive. Maybe they’d be 
here anyway, to keep an eye on Seth. There are a lot 
of vampires here. Seth doesn’t take that as seriously 
as he should.” 

“Seth knows that he’s not in any danger. He 
understands the Cullens better than Sam does.” 

69 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sure, sure,” Jacob said, making peace before it could 
turn into a fight. It was strange to have him being the 
diplomat. 

“Sorry about those voices,” I said. “Wish I could make 
it better.” In so many ways. 

“It’s not that bad. I’m just whining a little.” 

“You’re... happy?” 

“Close enough. But enough about me. You’re the star 
today.” He chuckled. “I bet you’re just loving that. 
Center of attention.” 

“Yeah. Can’t get enough attention.” 

He laughed and then stared over my head. With 
pursed lips, he studied the shimmering glow of the 
reception party, the graceful whirl of the dancers, the 
fluttering petals falling from the garlands; I looked 
with him. It all seemed very distant from this black, 
quiet space. Almost like watching the white flurries 
swirling inside a snow globe. 

“I’ll give them this much,” he said. “They know how to 
throw a party.” 

“Alice is an unstoppable force of nature.” 

He sighed. “Song’s over. Do you think I get another 
one? Or is that asking too much?” 

I tightened my hand around his. “You can have as 
many dances as you want.” 



70 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed. “That would be interesting. I think I’d 
better stick with two, though. Don’t want to start 
talk.” 

We turned in another circle. 

“You’d think I’d be used to telling you goodbye by 
now,” he murmured. I tried to swallow the lump in 
my throat, but I couldn’t force it down. Jacob looked 
at me and frowned. He wiped his fingers across my 
cheek, catching the tears there. 

“You’re not supposed to be the one crying, Bella.” 

“Everyone cries at weddings,” I said thickly. 

“This is what you want, right?” 

“Right.” 

“Then smile.” 

I tried. He laughed at my grimace. 

“I’m going to try to remember you like this. Pretend 
that ...” 

“That what? That I died?” 

He clenched his teeth. He was struggling with 
himself — with his decision to make his presence here 
a gift and not a judgment. I could guess what he 
wanted to say. 

“No,” he finally answered. “But I’ll see you this way in 
my head. Pink cheeks. Heartbeat. Two left feet. All of 
that.” 



I deliberately stomped on his foot as hard as I could. 

71 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He smiled. “That’s my girl.” 

He started to say something else and then snapped 
his mouth closed. Struggling again, teeth gritted 
against the words he didn’t want to say. 

My relationship with Jacob used to be so easy. 
Natural as breathing. But since Edward had come 
back into my life, it was a constant strain. Because — 
in Jacob’s eyes — by choosing Edward, I was choosing 
a fate that was worse than death, or at least 
equivalent to it. 

“What is it, Jake? Just tell me. You can tell me 
anything.” 

“I — I... I don’t have anything to tell you.” 

“Oh please. Spit it out.” 

“It’s true. It’s not... it’s — it’s a question. It’s something 
I want you to tell me.” 

“Ask me.” 

He struggled for another minute and then exhaled. “I 
shouldn’t. It doesn’t matter. I’m just morbidly 
curious.” 

Because I knew him so well, I understood. 

“It’s not tonight, Jacob,” I whispered. 

Jacob was even more obsessed with my humanity 
than Edward. He treasured every one of my 
heartbeats, knowing that they were numbered. 

“Oh,” he said, trying to smother his relief. “Oh.” 



72 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




A new song started playing, but he didn’t notice the 
change this time. 

“When?” he whispered. 

“I don’t know for sure. A week or two, maybe.” 

His voice changed, took on a defensive, mocking edge. 
“What’s the holdup?” 

“I just didn’t want to spend my honeymoon writhing 
in pain.” 

“You’d rather spend it how? Playing checkers? Ha 
ha.” 

“Very funny.” 

“Kidding, Bells. But, honestly, I don’t see the point. 
You can’t have a real honeymoon with your vampire, 
so why go through the motions? Call a spade a spade. 
This isn’t the first time you’ve put this off. That’s a 
good thing, though,” he said, suddenly earnest. 

“Don’t be embarrassed about it.” 

“I’m not putting anything off,” I snapped. “And yes I 
can have a real honeymoon! I can do anything I want! 
Butt out!” 

He stopped our slow circling abruptly. For a moment, 

I wondered if he’d finally noticed the music change, 
and I scrambled in my head for a way to patch up our 
little tiff before he said goodbye to me. We shouldn’t 
part on this note. 

And then his eyes bulged wide with a strange kind of 
confused horror. 



73 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What?” he gasped. “What did you say?” 

“About what... ? Jake? What’s wrong?” 

“What do you mean? Have a real honeymoon? While 
you’re still human? Are you kidding? That’s a sick 
joke, Bella!” 

I glared at him. “I said butt out, Jake. This is so not 
your business. I shouldn’t have... 

we shouldn’t even be talking about this. It’s private — ” 

His enormous hands gripped the tops of my arms, 
wrapping all the way around, fingers overlapping. 

“Ow, Jake! Let go!” 

He shook me. 

“Bella! Have you lost your mind? You can’t be that 
stupid! Tell me you’re joking!” 

He shook me again. His hands, tight as tourniquets, 
were quivering, sending vibrations deep into my 
bones. 

“Jake— stop!” 

The darkness was suddenly very crowded. 

“Take your hands off her!” Edward’s voice was cold as 
ice, sharp as razors. Behind Jacob, there was a low 
snarl from the black night, and then another, 
overlapping the first. 

“Jake, bro, back away,” I heard Seth Clearwater urge. 
“You’re losing it.” 



74 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob seemed frozen as he was, his horrified eyes 
wide and staring. 

“You’ll hurt her,” Seth whispered. “Let her go.” 

“Now!” Edward snarled. 

Jacob’s hands dropped to his sides, and the sudden 
gush of blood through my waiting veins was almost 
painful. Before I could register more than that, cold 
hands replaced the hot ones, and the air was 
suddenly whooshing past me. 

I blinked, and I was on my feet a half dozen feet away 
from where I’d been standing. Edward was tensed in 
front of me. There were two enormous wolves braced 
between him and Jacob, but they did not seem 
aggressive to me. More like they were trying to 
prevent the fight. 

And Seth — gangly, fifteen-year-old Seth — had his long 
arms around Jacob’s shaking body, and he was 
tugging him away. If Jacob phased with Seth so 
close... 

“C’mon, Jake. Let’s go.” 

“I’ll kill you,” Jacob said, his voice so choked with 
rage that it was low as a whisper. His eyes, focused 
on Edward, burned with fury. “I’ll kill you myself! I’ll 
do it now!” He shuddered convulsively. 

The biggest wolf, the black one, growled sharply. 

“Seth, get out of the way,” Edward hissed. 



75 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Seth tugged on Jacob again. Jacob was so bewildered 
with rage that Seth was able to yank him a few feet 
farther back. “Don’t do it, Jake. Walk away. C’mon.” 

Sam — the bigger wolf, the black one — joined Seth 
then. He put his massive head against Jacob’s chest 
and shoved. 

The three of them — Seth towing, Jake trembling, Sam 
pushing — disappeared swiftly into the darkness. 

The other wolf stared after them. I wasn’t sure, in the 
weak light, about the color of his fur — chocolate 
brown, maybe? Was it Quil, then? 

“I’m sorry,” I whispered to the wolf. 

“It’s all right now, Bella,” Edward murmured. 

The wolf looked at Edward. His gaze was not friendly. 
Edward gave him one cold nod. The wolf huffed and 
then turned to follow the others, vanishing as they 
had. 

“All right,” Edward said to himself, and then he 
looked at me. “Let’s get back.” 

“But Jake—” 

“Sam has him in hand. He’s gone.” 

“Edward, I’m so sorry. I was stupid — ” 

“You did nothing wrong — ” 

“I have such a big mouth! Why would I... I shouldn’t 
have let him get to me like that. What was I 
thinking?” 



76 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t worry.” He touched my face. “We need to get 
back to the reception before someone notices our 
absence.” 

I shook my head, trying to reorient myself. Before 
someone noticed? Had anyone missed that? 

Then, as I thought about it, I realized the 
confrontation that had seemed so catastrophic to me 
had, in reality, been very quiet and short here in the 
shadows. 

“Give me two seconds,” I pleaded. 

My insides were chaotic with panic and grief, but that 
didn’t matter — only the outside mattered right now. 
Putting on a good show was something I knew I had 
to master. 

“My dress?” 

“You look fine. Not a hair out of place.” 

I took two deep breaths. “Okay. Let’s go.” 

He put his arms around me and led me back to the 
light. When we passed under the twinkle lights, he 
spun me gently onto the dance floor. We melted in 
with the other dancers as if our dance had never been 
interrupted. 

I glanced around at the guests, but no one seemed 
shocked or frightened. Only the very palest faces 
there showed any signs of stress, and they hid it well. 
Jasper and Emmett were on the edge of the floor, 
close together, and I guessed that they had been 
nearby during the confrontation. 



77 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Are you — ” 

“I’m fine,” I promised. “I can’t believe I did that. 

What’s wrong with me?” 

“Nothing is wrong with you.” 

I’d been so glad to see Jacob here. I knew the sacrifice 
it had taken him. And then I’d ruined it, turned his 
gift into a disaster. I should be quarantined. But my 
idiocy would not ruin anything else tonight. I would 
put this away, shove it in a drawer and lock it up to 
deal with later. There would be plenty of time to 
flagellate myself for this, and nothing I could do now 
would help. 

“It’s over,” I said. “Let’s not think of it again tonight.” 

I expected a quick agreement from Edward, but he 
was silent. 

“Edward?” 

He closed his eyes and touched his forehead to mine. 
“Jacob is right,” he whispered. 

“What am I thinking?” 

“He is not.” I tried to keep my face smooth for the 
watching crowd of friends. “Jacob is way too 
prejudiced to see anything clearly.” 

He mumbled something low that sounded almost like 
“should let him kill me for even thinking ...” 

“Stop it,” I said fiercely. I grabbed his face in my 
hands and waited until he opened his eyes. “You and 



78 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




me. That’s the only thing that matters. The only thing 
you’re allowed to think about now. Do you hear me?” 

“Yes,” he sighed. 

“Forget Jacob came.” I could do that. I would do that. 
“For me. Promise that you’ll let this go.” 

He stared into my eyes for a moment before 
answering. “I promise.” 

“Thank you. Edward, I’m not afraid.” 

“I am,” he whispered. 

“Don’t be.” I took deep breath and smiled. “By the 
way, I love you.” 

He smiled just a little in return. “That’s why we’re 
here.” 

“You’re monopolizing the bride,” Emmett said, coming 
up behind Edward’s shoulder. 

“Let me dance with my little sister. This could be my 
last chance to make her blush.” He laughed loudly, as 
unaffected as he usually was by any serious 
atmosphere. It turned out there were actually lots of 
people I hadn’t danced with yet, and that gave me a 
chance to truly compose and resolve myself. When 
Edward claimed me again, I found that the Jacob- 
drawer was shut nice and tight. As he wrapped his 
arms around me, I was able to unearth my earlier 
sense of joy, my certainty that everything in my life 
was in the right place tonight. I smiled and laid my 
head against his chest. His arms tightened. 



79 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I could get used to this,” I said. 

“Don’t tell me you’ve gotten over your dancing 
issues?” 

“Dancing isn’t so bad — with you. But I was thinking 
more of this,” — and I pressed myself to him even 
tighter — “of never having to let you go.” 

“Never,” he promised, and he leaned down to kiss me. 

It was a serious kind of kiss — intense, slow but 
building.... 

I’d pretty much forgotten where I was when I heard 
Alice call, “Bella! It’s time!” 

I felt a brief flicker of irritation with my new sister for 
the interruption. Edward ignored her; his lips were 
hard against mine, more urgent than before. My heart 
broke into a sprint and my palms were slick against 
his marble neck. 

“Do you want to miss your plane?” Alice demanded, 
right next to me now. “I’m sure you’ll have a lovely 
honeymoon camped out in the airport waiting for 
another flight.” 

Edward turned his face slightly to murmur, “Go away, 
Alice,” and then pressed his lips to mine again. 

“Bella, do you want to wear that dress on the 
airplane?” she demanded. I wasn’t really paying much 
attention. At the moment, I simply didn’t care. Alice 
growled quietly. “I’ll tell her where you’re taking her, 
Edward. So help me, I will.” 



80 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He froze. Then he lifted his face from mine and glared 
at his favorite sister. “You’re awfully small to be so 
hugely irritating.” 

“I didn’t pick out the perfect going-away dress to have 
it wasted,” she snapped back, taking my hand. “Come 
with me, Bella.” 

I tugged against her hold, stretching up on my toes to 
kiss him one more time. She jerked my arm 
impatiently, hauling me away from him. There were a 
few chuckles from the watching guests. I gave up 
then and let her lead me into the empty house. She 
looked annoyed. 

“Sorry, Alice,” I apologized. 

“I don’t blame you, Bella.” She sighed. “You don’t 
seem to be able help yourself.” 

I giggled at her martyred expression, and she scowled. 

“Thank you, Alice. It was the most beautiful wedding 
anyone ever had,” I told her earnestly. “Everything 
was exactly right. You’re the best, smartest, most 
talented sister in the whole world.” 

That thawed her out; she smiled a huge smile. “I’m 
glad you liked it.” 

Renee and Esme were waiting upstairs. The three of 
them quickly had me out of my dress and into Alice’s 
deep blue going-away ensemble. I was grateful when 
someone pulled the pins out of my hair and let it fall 
loose down my back, wavy from the braids, saving me 
from a hairpin headache later. My mother’s tears 
streamed without a break the entire time. 

81 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll call you when I know where I’m going,” I promised 
as I hugged her goodbye. I knew the honeymoon 
secret was probably driving her crazy; my mother 
hated secrets, unless she was in on them. 

“I’ll tell you as soon as she’s safely away,” Alice outdid 
me, smirking at my wounded expression. How unfair, 
for me to be the last to know. 

“You have to visit me and Phil very, very soon. It’s 
your turn to go south — see the sun for once,” Renee 
said. 

“It didn’t rain today,” I reminded her, avoiding her 
request. 

“A miracle.” 

“Everything’s ready,” Alice said. “Your suitcases are in 
the car — Jasper’s bringing it around.” She pulled me 
back toward the stairs with Renee following, still 
halfway embracing me. 

“I love you, Mom,” I whispered as we descended. “I’m 
so glad you have Phil. Take care of each other.” 

“I love you, too, Bella, honey.” 

“Goodbye, Mom. I love you,” I said again, my throat 
thick. 

Edward was waiting at the bottom of the stairs. I took 
his outstretched hand but leaned away, scanning the 
little crowd that was waiting to see us off. 

“Dad?” I asked, my eyes searching. 



82 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Over here,” Edward murmured. He pulled me 
through the guests; they made a pathway for us. We 
found Charlie leaning awkwardly against the wall 
behind everyone else, looking a little like he was 
hiding. The red rims around his eyes explained why. 

“Oh, Dad!” 

I hugged him around the waist, tears streaming 
again — I was crying so much tonight. He patted my 
back. 

“There, now. You don’t want to miss your plane.” 

It was hard to talk about love with Charlie — we were 
so much alike, always reverting to trivial things to 
avoid embarrassing emotional displays. But this was 
no time for being self-conscious. 

“I love you forever, Dad,” I told him. “Don’t forget 
that.” 

“You, too, Bells. Always have, always will.” 

I kissed his cheek at the same time that he kissed 
mine. 

“Call me,” he said. 

“Soon,” I promised, knowing this was all I could 
promise. Just a phone call. My father and my mother 
could not be allowed to see me again; I would be too 
different, and much, much too dangerous. 

“Go on, then,” he said gruffly. “Don’t want to be late.” 

The guests made another aisle for us. Edward pulled 
me close to his side as we made our escape. 

83 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Are you ready?” he asked. 

“I am,” I said, and I knew that it was true. 

Everyone applauded when Edward kissed me on the 
doorstep. Then he rushed me to the car as the rice 
storm began. Most of it went wide, but someone, 
probably Emmett, threw with uncanny precision, and 
I caught a lot of the ricochets off Edward’s back. The 
car was decorated with more flowers that trailed in 
streamers along its length, and long gossamer 
ribbons that were tied to a dozen shoes — designer 
shoes that looked brand-new — dangling behind the 
bumper. 

Edward shielded me from the rice while I climbed in, 
and then he was in and we were speeding away as I 
waved out the window and called “I love you” to the 
porch, where my families waved back. 

The last image I registered was one of my parents. 

Phil had both arms wrapped tenderly around Renee. 
She had one arm tight around his waist but had her 
free hand reached out to hold Charlie’s. So many 
different kinds of love, harmonious in this one 
moment. It seemed a very hopeful picture to me. 

Edward squeezed my hand. 

“I love you,” he said. 

I leaned my head against his arm. “That’s why we’re 
here,” I quoted him. He kissed my hair. 

As we turned onto the black highway and Edward 
really hit the accelerator, I heard a noise over the purr 
of the engine, coming from the forest behind us. If I 

84 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




could hear it, then he certainly could. But he said 
nothing as the sound slowly faded in the distance. I 
said nothing, either. 

The piercing, heartbroken howling grew fainter and 
then disappeared entirely. 



85 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




ISLE ESME 



“Houston?” I asked, raising my eyebrows when we 
reached the gate in Seattle. 

“Just a stop along the way,” Edward assured me with 
a grin. 

It felt like I’d barely fallen asleep when he woke me. I 
was groggy as he pulled me through the terminals, 
struggling to remember how to open my eyes after 
every blink. It took me a few minutes to catch up with 
what was going on when we stopped at the 
international counter to check in for our next flight. 

“Rio de Janeiro?” I asked with slightly more 
trepidation. 

“Another stop,” he told me. 

The flight to South America was long but comfortable 
in the wide first-class seat, with Edward’s arms 
cradled around me. I slept myself out and awoke 
unusually alert as we circled toward the airport with 
the light of the setting sun slanting through the 
plane’s windows. 

We didn’t stay in the airport to connect with another 
flight as I’d expected. Instead we took a taxi through 
the dark, teeming, living streets of Rio. Unable to 
understand a word of Edward’s Portuguese 
instructions to the driver, I guessed that we were off 
to find a hotel before the next leg of our journey. A 
sharp twinge of something very close to stage fright 
86 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



twisted in the pit of my stomach as I considered that. 
The taxi continued through the swarming crowds 
until they thinned somewhat, and we appeared to be 
nearing the extreme western edge of the city, heading 
into the ocean. 

We stopped at the docks. 

Edward led the way down the long line of white 
yachts moored in the night-blackened water. The boat 
he stopped at was smaller than the others, sleeker, 
obviously built for speed instead of space. Still 
luxurious, though, and more graceful than the rest. 
He leaped in lightly, despite the heavy bags he 
carried. He dropped those on the deck and turned to 
help me carefully over the edge. 

I watched in silence while he prepared the boat for 
departure, surprised at how skilled and comfortable 
he seemed, because he’d never mentioned an interest 
in boating before. But then again, he was good at just 
about everything. 

As we headed due east into the open ocean, I 
reviewed basic geography in my head. As far as I 
could remember, there wasn’t much east of Brazil... 
until you got to Africa. But Edward sped forward 
while the lights of Rio faded and ultimately 
disappeared behind us. On his face was a familiar 
exhilarated smile, the one produced by any form of 
speed. The boat plunged through the waves and I was 
showered with sea spray. Finally the curiosity I’d 
suppressed so long got the best of me. 

“Are we going much farther?” I asked. 



87 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It wasn’t like him to forget that I was human, but I 
wondered if he planned for us to live on this small 
craft for any length of time. 

“About another half hour.” His eyes took in my hands, 
clenched on the seat, and he grinned. 

Oh well, I thought to myself. He was a vampire, after 
all. Maybe we were going to Atlantis. 

Twenty minutes later, he called my name over the 
roar of the engine. 

“Bella, look there.” He pointed straight ahead. 

I saw only blackness at first, and the moon’s white 
trail across the water. But I searched the space where 
he pointed until I found a low black shape breaking 
into the sheen of moonlight on the waves. As I 
squinted into the darkness, the silhouette became 
more detailed. The shape grew into a squat, irregular 
triangle, with one side trailing longer than the other 
before sinking into the waves. We drew closer, and I 
could see the outline was feathery, swaying to the 
light breeze. 

And then my eyes refocused and the pieces all made 
sense: a small island rose out of the water ahead of 
us, waving with palm fronds, a beach glowing pale in 
the light of the moon. 

“Where are we?” I murmured in wonder while he 
shifted course, heading around to the north end of 
the island. 

He heard me, despite the noise of the engine, and 
smiled a wide smile that gleamed in the moonlight. 

88 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“This is Isle Esme.” 



The boat slowed dramatically, drawing with precision 
into position against a short dock constructed of 
wooden planks, bleached into whiteness by the moon. 
The engine cut off, and the silence that followed was 
profound. There was nothing but the waves, slapping 
lightly against the boat, and the rustle of the breeze in 
the palms. The air was warm, moist, and fragrant — 
like the steam left behind after a hot shower. 

“Isle Esme?” My voice was low, but it still sounded too 
loud as it broke into the quiet night. 

“A gift from Carlisle — Esme offered to let us borrow 
it.” 

A gift. Who gives an island as a gift? I frowned. I 
hadn’t realized that Edward’s extreme generosity was 
a learned behavior. 

He placed the suitcases on the dock and then turned 
back, smiling his perfect smile as he reached for me. 
Instead of taking my hand, he pulled me right up into 
his arms. 

“Aren’t you supposed to wait for the threshold?” I 
asked, breathless, as he sprung lightly out of the 
boat. 

He grinned. “I’m nothing if not thorough.” 

Gripping the handles of both huge steamer trunks in 
one hand and cradling me in the other arm, he 
carried me up the dock and onto a pale sand pathway 
through the dark vegetation. 



89 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




For a short while it was pitch black in the jungle-like 
growth, and then I could see a warm light ahead. It 
was about at the point when I realized the light was a 
house — the two bright, perfect squares were wide 
windows framing a front door — that the stage fright 
attacked again, more forcefully than before, worse 
than when I’d thought we were headed for a hotel. 

My heart thudded audibly against my ribs, and my 
breath seemed to get stuck in my throat. I felt 
Edward’s eyes on my face, but I refused to meet his 
gaze. I stared straight ahead, seeing nothing. 

He didn’t ask what I was thinking, which was out of 
character for him. I guessed that meant that he was 
just as nervous as I suddenly was. 

He set the suitcases on the deep porch to open the 
doors — they were unlocked. Edward looked down at 
me, waiting until I met his gaze before he stepped 
through the threshold. 

He carried me through the house, both of us very 
quiet, flipping on lights as he went. My vague 
impression of the house was that it was quite large for 
a tiny island, and oddly familiar. I’d gotten used to 
the pale-on-pale color scheme preferred by the 
Cullens; it felt like home. I couldn’t focus on any 
specifics, though. The violent pulse beating behind 
my ears made everything a little blurry. 

Then Edward stopped and turned on the last light. 

The room was big and white, and the far wall was 
mostly glass — standard decor for my vampires. 
Outside, the moon was bright on white sand and, just 



90 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




a few yards away from the house, glistening waves. 
But I barely noted that part. I was more focused on 
the absolutely huge white bed in the center of the 
room, hung with billowy clouds of mosquito netting. 

Edward set me on my feet. 

“111... go get the luggage.” 

The room was too warm, stuffier than the tropical 
night outside. A bead of sweat dewed up on the nape 
of my neck. I walked slowly forward until I could 
reach out and touch the foamy netting. For some 
reason I felt the need to make sure everything was 
real. I didn’t hear Edward return. Suddenly, his 
wintry finger caressed the back of my neck, wiping 
away the drop of perspiration. 

“It’s a little hot here,” he said apologetically. “I 
thought... that would be best.” 

“Thorough,” I murmured under my breath, and he 
chuckled. It was a nervous sound, rare for Edward. 

“I tried to think of everything that would make this... 
easier,” he admitted. I swallowed loudly, still facing 
away from him. Had there ever been a honeymoon 
like this before? 

I knew the answer to that. No. There had not. 

“I was wondering,” Edward said slowly, “if... first... 
maybe you’d like to take a midnight swim with me?” 
He took a deep breath, and his voice was more at ease 
when he spoke again. “The water will be very warm. 
This is the kind of beach you approve of.” 



91 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sounds nice.” My voice broke. 

“I’m sure you’d like a human minute or two.... It was 
a long journey.” 

I nodded woodenly. I felt barely human; maybe a few 
minutes alone would help. His lips brushed against 
my throat, just below my ear. He chuckled once and 
his cool breath tickled my overheated skin. “Don’t 
take too long, Mrs. Cullen.” 

I jumped a little at the sound of my new name. 

His lips brushed down my neck to the tip of my 
shoulder. “I’ll wait for you in the water.” 

He walked past me to the French door that opened 
right onto the beach sand. On the way, he shrugged 
out of his shirt, dropping it on the floor, and then 
slipped through the door into the moonlit night. The 
sultry, salty air swirled into the room behind him. Did 
my skin burst into flames? I had to look down to 
check. Nope, nothing was burning. At least, not 
visibly. 

I reminded myself to breathe, and then I stumbled 
toward the giant suitcase that Edward had opened on 
top of a low white dresser. It must be mine, because 
my familiar bag of toiletries was right on top, and 
there was a lot of pink in there, but I didn’t recognize 
even one article of clothing. As I pawed through the 
neatly folded piles — looking for something familiar 
and comfortable, a pair of old sweats maybe — it came 
to my attention that there was an awful lot of sheer 
lace and skimpy satin in my hands. Lingerie. Very 
lingerie-ish lingerie, with French tags. 



92 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t know how or when, but someday, Alice was 
going to pay for this. Giving up, I went to the 
bathroom and peeked out through the long windows 
that opened to the same beach as the French doors. I 
couldn’t see him; I guessed he was there in the water, 
not bothering to come up for air. In the sky above, the 
moon was lopsided, almost full, and the sand was 
bright white under its shine. A small movement 
caught my eye — draped over a bend in one of the 
palm trees that fringed the beach, the rest of his 
clothes were swaying in the light breeze. 

A rush of heat flashed across my skin again. 

I took a couple of deep breaths and then went to the 
mirrors above the long stretch of counters. I looked 
exactly like I’d been sleeping on a plane all day. I 
found my brush and yanked it harshly through the 
snarls on the back of my neck until they were 
smoothed out and the bristles were full of hair. I 
brushed my teeth meticulously, twice. Then I washed 
my face and splashed water on the back of my neck, 
which was feeling feverish. That felt so good that I 
washed my arms as well, and finally I decided to just 
give up and take the shower. I knew it was ridiculous 
to shower before swimming, but I needed to calm 
down, and hot water was one reliable way to do that. 
Also, shaving my legs again seemed like a pretty good 
idea. 

When I was done, I grabbed a huge white towel off the 
counter and wrapped it under my arms. 

Then I was faced with a dilemma I hadn’t considered. 
What was I supposed to put on? 



93 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Not a swimsuit, obviously. But it seemed silly to put 
my clothes back on, too. I didn’t even want to think 
about the things Alice had packed for me. 

My breathing started to accelerate again and my 
hands trembled — so much for the calming effects of 
the shower. I started to feel a little dizzy, apparently a 
full-scale panic attack on the way. I sat down on the 
cool tile floor in my big towel and put my head 
between my knees. I prayed he wouldn’t decide to 
come look for me before I could pull myself together. I 
could imagine what he would think if he saw me 
going to pieces this way. It wouldn’t be hard for him 
to convince himself that we were making a mistake. 
And I wasn’t freaking out because I thought we were 
making a mistake. Not at all. I was freaking out 
because I had no idea how to do this, and I was afraid 
to walk out of this room and face the unknown. 
Especially in French lingerie. I knew I wasn’t ready for 
that yet. 

This felt exactly like having to walk out in front of a 
theater full of thousands with no idea what my lines 
were. 

How did people do this — swallow all their fears and 
trust someone else so implicitly with every 
imperfection and fear they had — with less than the 
absolute commitment Edward had given me? If it 
weren’t Edward out there, if I didn’t know in every cell 
of my body that he loved me as much as I loved him — 
unconditionally and irrevocably and, to be honest, 
irrationally — I’d never be able to get up off this floor. 
But it was Edward out there, so I whispered the 
words “Don’t be a coward” under my breath and 

94 | Page Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




scrambled to my feet. I hitched the towel tighter 
under my arms and marched determinedly from the 
bathroom. Past the suitcase full of lace and the big 
bed without looking at either. Out the open glass door 
onto the powder-fine sand. Everything was black-and- 
white, leached colorless by the moon. I walked slowly 
across the warm powder, pausing beside the curved 
tree where he had left his clothes. I laid my hand 
against the rough bark and checked my breathing to 
make sure it was even. Or even enough. 

I looked across the low ripples, black in the darkness, 
searching for him. He wasn’t hard to find. He stood, 
his back to me, waist deep in the midnight water, 
staring up at the oval moon. The pallid light of the 
moon turned his skin a perfect white, like the sand, 
like the moon itself, and made his wet hair black as 
the ocean. He was motionless, his hands resting 
palms down against the water; the low waves broke 
around him as if he were a stone. I stared at the 
smooth lines of his back, his shoulders, his arms, his 
neck, the flawless shape of him.... 

The fire was no longer a flash burn across my skin — it 
was slow and deep now; it smoldered away all my 
awkwardness, my shy uncertainty. I slipped the towel 
off without hesitation, leaving it on the tree with his 
clothes, and walked out into the white light; it made 
me pale as the snowy sand, too. 

I couldn’t hear the sound of my footsteps as I walked 
to the water’s edge, but I guessed that he could. 
Edward did not turn. I let the gentle swells break over 
my toes, and found that he’d been right about the 
temperature — it was very warm, like bath water. I 

95 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




stepped in, walking carefully across the invisible 
ocean floor, but my care was unnecessary; the sand 
continued perfectly smooth, sloping gently toward 
Edward. I waded through the weightless current till I 
was at his side, and then I placed my hand lightly 
over his cool hand lying on the water. 

“Beautiful,” I said, looking up at the moon, too. 

“It’s all right,” he answered, unimpressed. He turned 
slowly to face me; little waves rolled away from his 
movement and broke against my skin. His eyes 
looked silver in his ice-colored face. He twisted his 
hand up so that he could twine our fingers beneath 
the surface of the water. It was warm enough that his 
cool skin did not raise goose bumps on mine. 

“But I wouldn’t use the word beautiful, ” he 
continued. “Not with you standing here in 
comparison.” 

I half-smiled, then raised my free hand — it didn’t 
tremble now — and placed it over his heart. White on 
white; we matched, for once. He shuddered the tiniest 
bit at my warm touch. His breath came rougher now. 

“I promised we would try,” he whispered, suddenly 
tense. “If... if I do something wrong, if I hurt you, you 
must tell me at once.” 

I nodded solemnly, keeping my eyes on his. I took 
another step through the waves and leaned my head 
against his chest. 

“Don’t be afraid,” I murmured. “We belong together.” 



96 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I was abruptly overwhelmed by the truth of my own 
words. This moment was so perfect, so right, there 
was no way to doubt it. 

His arms wrapped around me, holding me against 
him, summer and winter. It felt like every nerve 
ending in my body was a live wire. 

“Forever,” he agreed, and then pulled us gently into 
deeper water. The sun, hot on the bare skin of my 
back, woke me in the morning. Late morning, maybe 
afternoon, I wasn’t sure. Everything besides the time 
was clear, though; I knew exactly where I was — the 
bright room with the big white bed, brilliant sunlight 
streaming through the open doors. The clouds of 
netting would soften the shine. I didn’t open my eyes. 

I was too happy to change anything, no matter how 
small. The only sounds were the waves outside, our 
breathing, my heartbeat.... 

I was comfortable, even with the baking sun. His cool 
skin was the perfect antidote to the heat. Lying across 
his wintry chest, his arms wound around me, felt very 
easy and natural. I wondered idly what I’d been so 
panicky about last night. My fears all seemed silly 
now. 

His fingers softly trailed down the contours of my 
spine, and I knew that he knew I was awake. I kept 
my eyes shut and tightened my arms around his 
neck, holding myself closer to him. 

He didn’t speak; his fingers moved up and down my 
back, barely touching it as he lightly traced patterns 
on my skin. 



97 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I would have been happy to lie here forever, to never 
disturb this moment, but my body had other ideas. I 
laughed at my impatient stomach. It seemed sort of 
prosaic to be hungry after all that had passed last 
night. Like being brought back down to earth from 
some great height. 

“What’s funny?” he murmured, still stroking my back. 
The sound of his voice, serious and husky, brought 
with it a deluge of memories from the night, and I felt 
a blush color my face and neck. 

To answer his question, my stomach growled. I 
laughed again. “You just can’t escape being human 
for very long.” 

I waited, but he did not laugh with me. Slowly, 
sinking through the many layers of bliss that clouded 
my head, came the realization of a different 
atmosphere outside my own glowing sphere of 
happiness. 

I opened my eyes; the first thing I saw was the pale, 
almost silvery skin of his throat, the arc of his chin 
above my face. His jaw was taut. I propped myself up 
on my elbow so I could see his face. 

He was staring at the frothy canopy above us, and he 
didn’t look at me as I studied his grave features. His 
expression was a shock — it sent a physical jolt 
through my body. 

“Edward,” I said, a strange little catch in my throat, 
“what is it? What’s wrong?” 

“You have to ask?” His voice was hard, cynical. 



98 | Page 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




My first instinct, the product of a lifetime of 
insecurities, was to wonder what I had done wrong. I 
thought through everything that had happened, but I 
couldn’t find any sour note in the memory. It had all 
been simpler than I’d expected; we’d fit together like 
corresponding pieces, made to match up. This had 
given me a secret satisfaction — we were compatible 
physically, as well as all the other ways. Fire and ice, 
somehow existing together without destroying each 
other. More proof that I belonged with him. I couldn’t 
think of any part that would make him look like 
this — so severe and cold. What had I missed? 

His finger smoothed the worried lines on my forehead. 

“What are you thinking?” he whispered. 

“You’re upset. I don’t understand. Did I... ?” I couldn’t 
finish. His eyes tightened. “How badly are you hurt, 
Bella? The truth — don’t try to downplay it.” 

“Hurt?” I repeated; my voice came out higher than 
usual because the word took me so by surprise. 

He raised one eyebrow, his lips a tight line. 

I made a quick assessment, stretching my body 
automatically, tensing and flexing my muscles. There 
was stiffness, and a lot of soreness, too, it was true, 
but mostly there was the odd sensation that my 
bones all had become unhinged at the joints, and I 
had changed halfway into the consistency of a 
jellyfish. It was not an unpleasant feeling. And then I 
was a little angry, because he was darkening this 
most perfect of all mornings with his pessimistic 
assumptions. 



99 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why would you jump to that conclusion? I’ve never 
been better than I am now.” 

His eyes closed. “Stop that.” 

“Stop what?” 

“Stop acting like I’m not a monster for having agreed 
to this.” 

“Edward!” I whispered, really upset now. He was 
pulling my bright memory through the darkness, 
staining it. “Don’t ever say that.” 

He didn’t open his eyes; it was like he didn’t want to 
see me. 

“Look at yourself, Bella. Then tell me I’m not a 
monster.” 

Wounded, shocked, I followed his instruction 
unthinkingly and then gasped. What had happened to 
me? I couldn’t make sense of the fluffy white snow 
that clung to my skin. I shook my head, and a 
cascade of white drifted out of my hair. I pinched one 
soft white bit between my fingers. It was a piece of 
down. 

“Why am I covered in feathers?” I asked, confused. 

He exhaled impatiently. “I bit a pillow. Or two. That’s 
not what I’m talking about.” 

“You... bit a pillow? Why? ” 

“Look, Bella!” he almost growled. He took my hand — 
very gingerly — and stretched my arm out. “Look at 
that.” 

100 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




This time, I saw what he meant. 

Under the dusting of feathers, large purplish bruises 
were beginning to blossom across the pale skin of my 
arm. My eyes followed the trail they made up to my 
shoulder, and then down across my ribs. I pulled my 
hand free to poke at a discoloration on my left 
forearm, watching it fade where I touched and then 
reappear. It throbbed a little. So lightly that he was 
barely touching me, Edward placed his hand against 
the bruises on my arm, one at a time, matching his 
long fingers to the patterns. 

“Oh,” I said. 

I tried to remember this — to remember pain — but I 
couldn’t. I couldn’t recall a moment when his hold 
had been too tight, his hands too hard against me. I 
only remembered wanting him to hold me tighter, and 
being pleased when he did.... 

“I’m... so sorry, Bella,” he whispered while I stared at 
the bruises. “I knew better than this. I should not 
have — ” He made a low, revolted sound in the back of 
his throat. “I am more sorry than I can tell you.” 

He threw his arm over his face and became perfectly 
still. 

I sat for one long moment in total astonishment, 
trying to come to terms — now that I understood it — 
with his misery. It was so contrary to the way that I 
felt that it was difficult to process. 

The shock wore off slowly, leaving nothing in its 
absence. Emptiness. My mind was blank. I couldn’t 



101 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




think of what to say. How could I explain it to him in 
the right way? 

How could I make him as happy as I was — or as I had 
been, a moment ago? 

I touched his arm, and he didn’t respond. I wrapped 
my fingers around his wrist and tried to pry his arm 
off his face, but I could have been yanking on a 
sculpture for all the good it did me. 

“Edward.” 

He didn’t move. 

“Edward?” 

Nothing. So, this would be a monologue, then. 

“I’m not sorry, Edward. I’m... I can’t even tell you. I’m 
so happy. That doesn’t cover it. Don’t be angry. Don’t. 
I’m really f— ” 

“Do not say the word fine.” His voice was ice cold. “If 
you value my sanity, do not say that you are fine.” 

“But I am,” I whispered. 

“Bella,” he almost moaned. “Don’t.” 

“No. You don’t, Edward.” 

He moved his arm; his gold eyes watched me warily. 
“Don’t ruin this,” I told him. “I. Am. Happy.” 

“I’ve already ruined this,” he whispered. 

“Cut it out,” I snapped. 



102 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I heard his teeth grind together. 

“Ugh!” I groaned. “Why can’t you just read my mind 
already? It’s so inconvenient to be a mental mute!” 

His eyes widened a little bit, distracted in spite of 
himself. 

“That’s a new one. You love that I can’t read your 
mind.” 

“Not today.” 

He stared at me. “Why?” 

I threw my hands up in frustration, feeling an ache in 
my shoulder that I ignored. My palms fell back 
against his chest with a sharp smack. “Because all 
this angst would be completely unnecessary if you 
could see how I feel right now! Or five minutes ago, 
anyway. I was perfectly happy. Totally and completely 
blissed out. Now — well, I’m sort of pissed, actually.” 

“You should be angry at me.” 

“Well, I am. Does that make you feel better?” 

He sighed. “No. I don’t think anything could make me 
feel better now.” 

“That,” I snapped. “That right there is why I’m angry. 
You are killing my buzz, Edward.” 

He rolled his eyes and shook his head. 

I took a deep breath. I was feeling more of the 
soreness now, but it wasn’t that bad. Sort of like the 
day after lifting weights. I’d done that with Renee 



103 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




during one of her fitness obsessions. Sixty-five lunges 
with ten pounds in each hand. I couldn’t walk the 
next day. This was not as painful as that had been by 
half. 

I swallowed my irritation and tried to make my voice 
soothing. “We knew this was going to be tricky. I 
thought that was assumed. And then — well, it was a 
lot easier than I thought it would be. And this is really 
nothing.” I brushed my fingers along my arm. “I think 
for a first time, not knowing what to expect, we did 
amazing. With a little practice 



His expression was suddenly so livid that I broke off 
mid-sentence. 

“Assumed? Did you expect this, Bella? Were you 
anticipating that I would hurt you? 

Were you thinking it would be worse? Do you 
consider the experiment a success because you can 
walk away from it? No broken bones — that equals a 
victory?” 

I waited, letting him get it all out. Then I waited some 
more while his breathing went back to normal. When 
his eyes were calm, I answered, speaking with slow 
precision. 

“I didn’t know what to expect — but I definitely did not 
expect how... how... just wonderful and perfect it 
was.” My voice dropped to a whisper, my eyes slipped 
from his face down to my hands. “I mean, I don’t 
know how it was for you, but it was like that for me.” 



104 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




A cool finger pulled my chin back up. 

“Is that what you’re worried about?” he said through 
his teeth. “That I didn’t enjoy myself?” 

My eyes stayed down. “I know it’s not the same. 

You’re not human. I just was trying to explain that, 
for a human, well, I can’t imagine that life gets any 
better than that.” 

He was quiet for so long that, finally, I had to look up. 
His face was softer now, thoughtful. 

“It seems that I have more to apologize for.” He 
frowned. “I didn’t dream that you would construe the 
way I feel about what I did to you to mean that last 
night wasn’t... 

well, the best night of my existence. But I don’t want 
to think of it that way, not when you were ...” 

My lips curved up a little at the edges. “Really? The 
best ever?” I asked in a small voice. 

He took my face between his hands, still 
introspective. “I spoke to Carlisle after you and I made 
our bargain, hoping he could help me. Of course he 
warned me that this would be very dangerous for 
you.” A shadow crossed his expression. “He had faith 
in me, though — faith I didn’t deserve.” 

I started to protest, and he put two fingers over my 
lips before I could comment. 

“I also asked him what I should expect. I didn’t know 
what it would be for me... what with my being a 
vampire.” He smiled halfheartedly. “Carlisle told me it 



105 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




was a very powerful thing, like nothing else. He told 
me physical love was something I should not treat 
lightly. With our rarely changing temperaments, 
strong emotions can alter us in permanent ways. But 
he said I did not need to worry about that part — you 
had already altered me so completely.” This time his 
smile was more genuine. 

“I spoke to my brothers, too. They told me it was a 
very great pleasure. Second only to drinking human 
blood.” A line creased his brow. “But I’ve tasted your 
blood, and there could be no blood more potent than 
that. ... I don’t think they were wrong, really. Just 
that it was different for us. Something more.” 

“It was more. It was everything.” 

“That doesn’t change the fact that it was wrong. Even 
if it were possible that you really did feel that way.” 

“What does that mean? Do you think I’m making this 
up? Why?” 

“To ease my guilt. I can’t ignore the evidence, Bella. 

Or your history of trying to let me off the hook when I 
make mistakes.” 

I grabbed his chin and leaned forward so that our 
faces were inches apart. “You listen to me, Edward 
Cullen. I am not pretending anything for your sake, 
okay? I didn’t even know there was a reason to make 
you feel better until you started being all miserable. 
I’ve never been so happy in all my life — I wasn’t this 
happy when you decided that you loved me more than 
you wanted to kill me, or the first morning I woke up 
and you were there waiting for me.... Not when I 



106 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




heard your voice in the ballet studio” — he flinched at 
the old memory of my close call with a hunting 
vampire, but I didn’t pause — “or when you said ‘I do’ 
and I realized that, somehow, I get to keep you 
forever. Those are the happiest memories I have, and 
this is better than any of it. So just deal with it.” 

He touched the frown line between my eyebrows. “I’m 
making you unhappy now. I don’t want to do that.” 

“Then don’t you be unhappy. That’s the only thing 
that’s wrong here.” 

His eyes tightened, then he took a deep breath and 
nodded. “You’re right. The past is past and I can’t do 
anything to change it. There’s no sense in letting my 
mood sour this time for you. I’ll do whatever I can to 
make you happy now.” 

I examined his face suspiciously, and he gave me a 
serene smile. 

“Whatever makes me happy?” 

My stomach growled at the same time that I asked. 

“You’re hungry,” he said quickly. He was swiftly out of 
the bed, stirring up a cloud of feathers. Which 
reminded me. 

“So, why exactly did you decide to ruin Esme’s 
pillows?” I asked, sitting up and shaking more down 
from my hair. 

He had already pulled on a pair of loose khaki pants, 
and he stood by the door, rumpling his hair, 
dislodging a few feathers of his own. 



107 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t know if I decided to do anything last night,” 
he muttered. “We’re just lucky it was the pillows and 
not you.” He inhaled deeply and then shook his head, 
as if shaking off the dark thought. A very authentic- 
looking smile spread across his face, but I guessed it 
took a lot of work to put it there. 

I slid carefully off the high bed and stretched again, 
more aware, now, of the aches and sore spots. I heard 
him gasp. He turned away from me, and his hands 
balled up, knuckles white. 

“Do I look that hideous?” I asked, working to keep my 
tone light. His breath caught, but he didn’t turn, 
probably to hide his expression from me. I walked to 
the bathroom to check for myself. 

I stared at my naked body in the full-length mirror 
behind the door. I’d definitely had worse. There was a 
faint shadow across one of my cheekbones, and my 
lips were a little swollen, but other than that, my face 
was fine. The rest of me was decorated with patches 
of blue and purple. I concentrated on the bruises that 
would be the hardest to hide — my arms and my 
shoulders. They weren’t so bad. My skin marked up 
easily. By the time a bruise showed I’d usually 
forgotten how I’d come by it. Of course, these were 
just developing. I’d look even worse tomorrow. That 
would not make things any easier. 

I looked at my hair, then, and groaned. 

“Bella?” He was right there behind me as soon as I’d 
made a sound. 



108 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll never get this all out of my hair!” I pointed to my 
head, where it looked like a chicken was nesting. I 
started picking at the feathers. 

“You would be worried about your hair,” he mumbled, 
but he came to stand behind me, pulling out the 
feathers much more quickly. 

“How did you keep from laughing at this? I look 
ridiculous.” 

He didn’t answer; he just kept plucking. And I knew 
the answer anyway — there was nothing that would be 
funny to him in this mood. 

“This isn’t going to work,” I sighed after a minute. “It’s 
all dried in. I’m going to have to try to wash it out.” I 
turned around, wrapping my arms around his cool 
waist. “Do you want to help me?” 

“I’d better find some food for you,” he said in a quiet 
voice, and he gently unwound my arms. I sighed as 
he disappeared, moving too fast. 

It looked like my honeymoon was over. The thought 
put a big lump in my throat. When I was mostly 
feather-free and dressed in an unfamiliar white cotton 
dress that concealed the worst of the violet blotches, I 
padded off barefoot to where the smell of eggs and 
bacon and cheddar cheese was coming from. 

Edward stood in front of the stainless steel stove, 
sliding an omelet onto the light blue plate waiting on 
the counter. The scent of the food overwhelmed me. I 
felt like I could eat the plate and the frying pan, too; 
my stomach snarled. 



109 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Here,” he said. He turned with a smile on his face 
and set the plate on a small tiled table. 

I sat in one of the two metal chairs and started 
snarfing down the hot eggs. They burned my throat, 
but I didn’t care. 

He sat down across from me. “I’m not feeding you 
often enough.” 

I swallowed and then reminded him, “I was asleep. 
This is really good, by the way. Impressive for 
someone who doesn’t eat.” 

“Food Network,” he said, flashing my favorite crooked 
smile. 

I was happy to see it, happy that he seemed more like 
his normal self. 

“Where did the eggs come from?” 

“I asked the cleaning crew to stock the kitchen. A 
first, for this place. I’ll have to ask them to deal with 
the feathers.... ” He trailed off, his gaze fixed on a 
space above my head. I didn’t respond, trying to avoid 
saying anything that would upset him again. I ate 
everything, though he’d made enough for two. 

“Thank you,” I told him. I leaned across the table to 
kiss him. He kissed me back automatically, and then 
suddenly stiffened and leaned away. 

I gritted my teeth, and the question I meant to ask 
came out sounding like an accusation. 



110 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You aren’t going to touch me again while we’re here, 
are you?” 

He hesitated, then half-smiled and raised his hand to 
stroke my cheek. His fingers lingered softly on my 
skin, and I couldn’t help leaning my face into his 
palm. 

“You know that’s not what I meant.” 

He sighed and dropped his hand. “I know. And you’re 
right.” He paused, lifting his chin slightly. And then 
he spoke again with firm conviction. “I will not make 
love with you until you’ve been changed. I will never 
hurt you again.” 



Ill | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




DISTRACTIONS 



My entertainment became the number-one priority on 
Isle Esme. We snorkeled (well, I snorkeled while he 
flaunted his ability to go without oxygen indefinitely). 
We explored the small jungle that ringed the rocky 
little peak. We visited the parrots that lived in the 
canopy on the south end of the island. We watched 
the sunset from the rocky western cove. We swam 
with the porpoises that played in the warm, shallow 
waters there. Or at least I did; when Edward was in 
the water, the porpoises disappeared as if a shark 
was near. 

I knew what was going on. He was trying to keep me 
busy, distracted, so I that wouldn’t continue 
badgering him about the sex thing. Whenever I tried 
to talk him into taking it easy with one of the million 
DVDs under the big-screen plasma TV, he would lure 
me out of the house with magic words like coral reefs 
and submerged caves and sea turtles. We were going, 
going, going all day, so that I found myself completely 
famished and exhausted when the sun eventually set. 

I drooped over my plate after I finished dinner every 
night; once I’d actually fallen asleep right at the table 
and he’d had to carry me to bed. Part of it was that 
Edward always made too much food for one, but I was 
so hungry after swimming and climbing all day that I 
ate most of it. Then, full and worn out, I could barely 
keep my eyes open. All part of the plan, no doubt. 



112 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



Exhaustion didn’t help much with my attempts at 
persuasion. But I didn’t give up. I tried reasoning, 
pleading, and grouching, all to no avail. I was usually 
unconscious before I could really press my case far. 
And then my dreams felt so real — nightmares mostly, 
made more vivid, I guessed, by the too-bright colors of 
the island — that I woke up tired no matter how long I 
slept. 

About a week or so after we’d gotten to the island, I 
decided to try compromise. It had worked for us in 
the past. 

I was sleeping in the blue room now. The cleaning 
crew wasn’t due until the next day, and so the white 
room still had a snowy blanket of down. The blue 
room was smaller, the bed more reasonably 
proportioned. The walls were dark, paneled in teak, 
and the fittings were all luxurious blue silk. 

I’d taken to wearing some of Alice’s lingerie collection 
to sleep in at night — which weren’t so revealing 
compared to the scanty bikinis she’d packed for me 
when it came right down to it. I wondered if she’d 
seen a vision of why I would want such things, and 
then shuddered, embarrassed by that thought. 

I’d started out slow with innocent ivory satins, 
worried that revealing more of my skin would be the 
opposite of helpful, but ready to try anything. Edward 
seemed to notice nothing, as if I were wearing the 
same ratty old sweats I wore at home. The bruises 
were much better now — yellowing in some places and 
disappearing altogether in others — so tonight I pulled 
out one of the scarier pieces as I got ready in the 



113 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




paneled bathroom. It was black, lacy, and 
embarrassing to look at even when it wasn’t on. I was 
careful not to look in the mirror before I went back to 
the bedroom. I didn’t want to lose my nerve. 

I had the satisfaction of watching his eyes pop open 
wide for just a second before he controlled his 
expression. 

“What do you think?” I asked, pirouetting so that he 
could see every angle. He cleared his throat. “You look 
beautiful. You always do.” 

“Thanks,” I said a bit sourly. 

I was too tired to resist climbing quickly into the soft 
bed. He put his arms around me and pulled me 
against his chest, but this was routine — it was too hot 
to sleep without his cool body close. 

“I’ll make you a deal,” I said sleepily. 

“I will not make any deals with you,” he answered. 

“You haven’t even heard what I’m offering.” 

“It doesn’t matter.” 

I sighed. “Dang it. And I really wanted... Oh well.” 

He rolled his eyes. 

I closed mine and let the bait sit there. I yawned. 

It took only a minute — not long enough for me to zonk 
out. 

“All right. What is it you want?” 



114 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I gritted my teeth for a second, fighting a smile. If 
there was one thing he couldn’t resist, it was an 
opportunity to give me something. 

“Well, I was thinking... I know that the whole 
Dartmouth thing was just supposed to be a cover 
story, but honestly, one semester of college probably 
wouldn’t kill me,” I said, echoing his words from long 
ago, when he’d tried to persuade me to put off 
becoming a vampire. “Charlie would get a thrill out of 
Dartmouth stories, I bet. Sure, it might be 
embarrassing if I can’t keep up with all the brainiacs. 
Still... eighteen, nineteen. It’s really not such a big 
difference. It’s not like I’m going to get crow’s feet in 
the next year.” 

He was silent for a long moment. Then, in a low voice, 
he said, “You would wait. You would stay human.” 

I held my tongue, letting the offer sink in. 

“Why are you doing this to me?” he said through his 
teeth, his tone suddenly angry. 

“Isn’t it hard enough without all of this?” He grabbed 
a handful of lace that was ruffled on my thigh. For a 
moment, I thought he was going to rip it from the 
seam. Then his hand relaxed. “It doesn’t matter. I 
won’t make any deals with you.” 

“I want to go to college.” 

“No, you don’t. And there is nothing that is worth 
risking your life again. That’s worth hurting you.” 



115 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“But I do want to go. Well, it’s not college as much as 
it’s that I want — I want to be human a little while 
longer.” 

He closed his eyes and exhaled through his nose. 

“You are making me insane, Bella. Haven’t we had 
this argument a million times, you always begging to 
be a vampire without delay?” 

“Yes, but... well, I have a reason to be human that I 
didn’t have before.” 

“What’s that?” 

“Guess,” I said, and I dragged myself off the pillows to 
kiss him. He kissed me back, but not in a way that 
made me think I was winning. It was more like he was 
being careful not to hurt my feelings; he was 
completely, maddeningly in control of himself. Gently, 
he pulled me away after a moment and cradled me 
against his chest. 

“You are so human, Bella. Ruled by your hormones.” 
He chuckled. 

“That’s the whole point, Edward. I like this part of 
being human. I don’t want to give it up yet. I don’t 
want to wait through years of being a blood-crazed 
newborn for some part of this to come back to me.” 

I yawned, and he smiled. 

“You’re tired. Sleep, love.” He started humming the 
lullaby he’d composed for me when we first met. 

“I wonder why I’m so tired,” I muttered sarcastically. 
“That couldn’t be part of your scheme or anything.” 



116 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He just chuckled once and went back to humming. 



“For as tired as I’ve been, you’d think I’d sleep better.” 

The song broke off. “You’ve been sleeping like the 
dead, Bella. You haven’t said a word in your sleep 
since we got here. If it weren’t for the snoring, I’d 
worry you were slipping into a coma.” 

I ignored the snoring jibe; I didn’t snore. “I haven’t 
been tossing? That’s weird. Usually I’m all over the 
bed when I’m having nightmares. And shouting.” 

“You’ve been having nightmares?” 

“Vivid ones. They make me so tired.” I yawned. “I 
can’t believe I haven’t been babbling about them all 
night.” 

“What are they about?” 

“Different things — but the same, you know, because 
of the colors.” 

“Colors?” 

“It’s all so bright and real. Usually, when I’m 
dreaming, I know that I am. With these, I don’t know 
I’m asleep. It makes them scarier.” 

He sounded disturbed when he spoke again. “What is 
frightening you?” 

I shuddered slightly. “Mostly . . .” I hesitated. 

“Mostly?” he prompted. 

I wasn’t sure why, but I didn’t want to tell him about 
the child in my recurring nightmare; there was 

117 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




something private about that particular horror. So, 
instead of giving him the full description, I gave him 
just one element. Certainly enough to frighten me or 
anyone else. 

“The Volturi,” I whispered. 

He hugged me tighter. “They aren’t going to bother us 
anymore. You’ll be immortal soon, and they’ll have no 
reason.” 

I let him comfort me, feeling a little guilty that he’d 
misunderstood. The nightmares weren’t like that, 
exactly. It wasn’t that I was afraid for myself — I was 
afraid for the boy. 

He wasn’t the same boy as that first dream — the 
vampire child with the bloodred eyes who sat on a pile 
of dead people I loved. This boy I’d dreamed of four 
times in the last week was definitely human; his 
cheeks were flushed and his wide eyes were a soft 
green. But just like the other child, he shook with fear 
and desperation as the Volturi closed in on us. 

In this dream that was both new and old, I simply 
had to protect the unknown child. There was no other 
option. At the same time, I knew that I would fail. He 
saw the desolation on my face. “What can I do to 
help?” 

I shook it off. “They’re just dreams, Edward.” 

“Do you want me to sing to you? I’ll sing all night if it 
will keep the bad dreams away.” 

“They’re not all bad. Some are nice. So... colorful. 
Underwater, with the fish and the coral. It all seems 

118 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




like it’s really happening — I don’t know that I’m 
dreaming. Maybe this island is the problem. It’s really 
bright here.” 

“Do you want to go home?” 

“No. No, not yet. Can’t we stay awhile longer?” 

“We can stay as long as you want, Bella,” he promised 
me. 

“When does the semester start? I wasn’t paying 
attention before.” 

He sighed. He may have started humming again, too, 
but I was under before I could be sure. 

Later, when I awoke in the dark, it was with shock. 
The dream had been so very real... 

so vivid, so sensory.... I gasped aloud, now, 
disoriented by the dark room. Only a second ago, it 
seemed, I had been under the brilliant sun. 

“Bella?” Edward whispered, his arms tight around 
me, shaking me gently. “Are you all right, 
sweetheart?” 

“Oh,” I gasped again. Just a dream. Not real. To my 
utter astonishment, tears overflowed from my eyes 
without warning, gushing down my face. 

“Bella!” he said — louder, alarmed now. “What’s 
wrong?” He wiped the tears from my hot cheeks with 
cold, frantic fingers, but others followed. 

“It was only a dream.” I couldn’t contain the low sob 
that broke in my voice. The senseless tears were 



119 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




disturbing, but I couldn’t get control of the staggering 
grief that gripped me. I wanted so badly for the dream 
to be real. 

“It’s okay, love, you’re fine. I’m here.” He rocked me 
back and forth, a little too fast to soothe. “Did you 
have another nightmare? It wasn’t real, it wasn’t 
real.” 

“Not a nightmare.” I shook my head, scrubbing the 
back of my hand against my eyes. 

“It was a good dream.” My voice broke again. 

“Then why are you crying?” he asked, bewildered. 

“Because I woke up,” I wailed, wrapping my arms 
around his neck in a chokehold and sobbing into his 
throat. 

He laughed once at my logic, but the sound was tense 
with concern. 

“Everything’s all right, Bella. Take deep breaths.” 

“It was so real,” I cried. “I wanted it to be real.” 

“Tell me about it,” he urged. “Maybe that will help.” 

“We were on the beach. . . .” I trailed off, pulling back 
to look with tear-filled eyes at his anxious angel’s 
face, dim in the darkness. I stared at him broodingly 
as the unreasonable grief began to ebb. 

“And?” he finally prompted. 

I blinked the tears out of my eyes, torn. “Oh, Edward . 



120 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Tell me, Bella,” he pleaded, eyes wild with worry at 
the pain in my voice. But I couldn’t. Instead I 
clutched my arms around his neck again and locked 
my mouth with his feverishly. It wasn’t desire at all — 
it was need, acute to the point of pain. His response 
was instant but quickly followed by his rebuff. 

He struggled with me as gently as he could in his 
surprise, holding me away, grasping my shoulders. 

“No, Bella,” he insisted, looking at me as if he was 
worried that I’d lost my mind. My arms dropped, 
defeated, the bizarre tears spilling in a fresh torrent 
down my face, a new sob rising in my throat. He was 
right — I must be crazy. 

He stared at me with confused, anguished eyes. 

“I’m s-s-s-orry,” I mumbled. 

But he pulled me to him then, hugging me tightly to 
his marble chest. 

“I can’t, Bella, I can’t!” His moan was agonized. 

“Please,” I said, my plea muffled against his skin. 
“Please, Edward?” 

I couldn’t tell if he was moved by the tears trembling 
in my voice, or if he was unprepared to deal with the 
suddenness of my attack, or if his need was simply as 
unbearable in that moment as my own. But whatever 
the reason, he pulled my lips back to his, 
surrendering with a groan. 

And we began where my dream had left off. 



121 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I stayed very still when I woke up in the morning and 
tried to keep my breathing even. I was afraid to open 
my eyes. 

I was lying across Edward’s chest, but he was very 
still and his arms were not wrapped around me. That 
was a bad sign. I was afraid to admit I was awake and 
face his anger — 

no matter whom it was directed at today. 

Carefully, I peeked through my eyelashes. He was 
staring up at the dark ceiling, his arms behind his 
head. I pulled myself up on my elbow so that I could 
see his face better. It was smooth, expressionless. 

“How much trouble am I in?” I asked in a small voice. 

“Heaps,” he said, but turned his head and smirked at 
me. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. “I am sorry,” I said. “I didn’t 
mean... Well, I don’t know exactly what that was last 
night.” I shook my head at the memory of the 
irrational tears, the crushing grief. 

“You never did tell me what your dream was about.” 

“I guess I didn’t — but I sort of showed you what it was 
about.” I laughed nervously. 

“Oh,” he said. His eyes widened, and then he blinked. 
“Interesting.” 

“It was a very good dream,” I murmured. He didn’t 
comment, so a few seconds later I asked, “Am I 
forgiven?” 



122 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’m thinking about it.” 

I sat up, planning to examine myself — there didn’t 
seem to be any feathers, at least. But as I moved, an 
odd wave of vertigo hit. I swayed and fell back against 
the pillows. 

“Whoa... head rush.” 

His arms were around me then. “You slept for a long 
time. Twelve hours.” 

“Twelve?” How strange. 

I gave myself a quick once-over while I spoke, trying 
to be inconspicuous about it. I looked fine. The 
bruises on my arms were still a week old, yellowing. I 
stretched experimentally. I felt fine, too. Well, better 
than fine, actually. 

“Is the inventory complete?” 

I nodded sheepishly. “The pillows all appear to have 
survived.” 

“Unfortunately, I can’t say the same for your, er, 
nightgown.” He nodded toward the foot of the bed, 
where several scraps of black lace were strewn across 
the silk sheets. 

“That’s too bad,” I said. “I liked that one.” 

“I did, too.” 

“Were there any other casualties?” I asked timidly. 

“I’ll have to buy Esme a new bed frame,” he 
confessed, glancing over his shoulder. I followed his 



123 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




gaze and was shocked to see that large chunks of 
wood had apparently been gouged from the left side of 
the headboard. 

“Hmm.” I frowned. “You’d think I would have heard 
that.” 

“You seem to be extraordinarily unobservant when 
your attention is otherwise involved.” 

“I was a bit absorbed,” I admitted, blushing a deep 
red. 

He touched my burning cheek and sighed. “I’m really 
going to miss that.” 

I stared at his face, searching for any signs of the 
anger or remorse I feared. He gazed back at me 
evenly, his expression calm but otherwise unreadable. 

“How are you feeling?” 

He laughed. 

“What?” I demanded. 

“You look so guilty — like you’ve committed a crime.” 

“I feel guilty,” I muttered. 

“So you seduced your all-too-willing husband. That’s 
not a capital offense.” 

He seemed to be teasing. 

My cheeks got hotter. “The word seduced implies a 
certain amount of premeditation.” 

“Maybe that was the wrong word,” he allowed. 



124 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’re not angry?” 

He smiled ruefully. “I’m not angry.” 

“Why not?” 

“Well . . .” He paused. “I didn’t hurt you, for one 
thing. It was easier this time, to control myself, to 
channel the excesses.” His eyes flickered to the 
damaged frame again. 

“Maybe because I had a better idea of what to expect.” 

A hopeful smile started to spread across my face. “I 
told you that it was all about practice.” 

He rolled his eyes. 

My stomach growled, and he laughed. “Breakfast time 
for the human?” he asked. 

“Please,” I said, hopping out of bed. I moved too 
quickly, though, and had to stagger drunkenly to 
regain my balance. He caught me before I could 
stumble into the dresser. 

“Are you all right?” 

“If I don’t have a better sense of equilibrium in my 
next life, I’m demanding a refund.” 

I cooked this morning, frying up some eggs — too 
hungry to do anything more elaborate. Impatient, I 
flipped them onto a plate after just a few minutes. 

“Since when do you eat eggs sunny-side up?” he 
asked. 

“Since now.” 

125 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you know how many eggs you’ve gone through in 
the last week?” He pulled the trash bin out from 
under the sink — it was full of empty blue cartons. 

“Weird,” I said after swallowing a scorching bite. “This 
place is messing with my appetite.” And my dreams, 
and my already dubious balance. “But I like it here. 
Well probably have to leave soon, though, won’t we, 
to make it to Dartmouth in time? Wow, I guess we 
need to find a place to live and stuff, too.” 

He sat down next to me. “You can give up the college 
pretense now — you’ve gotten what you wanted. And 
we didn’t agree to a deal, so there are no strings 
attached.” 

I snorted. “It wasn’t a pretense, Edward. I don’t spend 
my free time plotting like some people do. What can 
we do to wear Bella out today? ” I said in a poor 
impression of his voice. He laughed, unashamed. “I 
really do want a little more time being human.” I 
leaned over to run my hand across his bare chest. “I 
have not had enough.” 

He gave me a dubious look. “For this?” he asked, 
catching my hand as it moved down his stomach. 

“Sex was the key all along?” He rolled his eyes. “Why 
didn’t I think of that?” he muttered sarcastically. “I 
could have saved myself a lot of arguments.” 

I laughed. “Yeah, probably.” 

“You are so human,” he said again. 

“I know.” 



126 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




A hint of a smile pulled at his lips. “We’re going to 
Dartmouth? Really?” 

“I’ll probably fail out in one semester.” 

“I’ll tutor you.” The smile was wide now. “You’re going 
to love college.” 

“Do you think we can find an apartment this late?” 

He grimaced, looking guilty. “Well, we sort of already 
have a house there. You know, just in case.” 

“You bought a house?” 

“Real estate is a good investment.” 

I raised one eyebrow and then let it go. “So we’re 
ready, then.” 

“I’ll have to see if we can keep your ‘before’ car for a 
little longer. ...” 

“Yes, heaven forbid I not be protected from tanks.” 

He grinned. 

“How much longer can we stay?” I asked. 

“We’re fine on time. A few more weeks, if you want. 
And then we can visit Charlie before we go to New 
Hampshire. We could spend Christmas with Renee. . . 



His words painted a very happy immediate future, 
one free of pain for everyone involved. The Jacob- 
drawer, all but forgotten, rattled, and I amended the 
thought — for almost everyone. 



127 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




This wasn’t getting any easier. Now that I’d discovered 
exactly how good being human could be, it was 
tempting to let my plans drift. Eighteen or nineteen, 
nineteen or twenty... Did it really matter? I wouldn’t 
change so much in a year. And being human with 
Edward... The choice got trickier every day. 

“A few weeks,” I agreed. And then, because there 
never seemed to be enough time, I added, “So I was 
thinking — you know what I was saying about practice 
before?” 

He laughed. “Can you hold on to that thought? I hear 
a boat. The cleaning crew must be here.” 

He wanted me to hold on to that thought. So did that 
mean he was not going to give me any more trouble 
about practicing? I smiled. 

“Let me explain the mess in the white room to 
Gustavo, and then we can go out. There’s a place in 
the jungle on the south — ” 

“I don’t want to go out. I am not hiking all over the 
island today. I want to stay here and watch a movie.” 

He pursed his lips, trying not to laugh at my 
disgruntled tone. “All right, whatever you’d like. Why 
don’t you pick one out while I get the door?” 

“I didn’t hear a knock.” 

He cocked his head to the side, listening. A half 
second later, a faint, timid rap on the door sounded. 
He grinned and turned for the hallway. 



128 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I wandered over to the shelves under the big TV and 
started scanning through the titles. It was hard to 
decide where to begin. They had more DVDs than a 
rental store. I could hear Edward’s low, velvet voice as 
he came back down the hall, conversing fluidly in 
what I assumed was perfect Portuguese. Another, 
harsher, human voice answered in the same tongue. 

Edward led them into the room, pointing toward the 
kitchen on his way. The two Brazilians looked 
incredibly short and dark next to him. One was a 
round man, the other a slight female, both their faces 
creased with lines. Edward gestured to me with a 
proud smile, and I heard my name mixed in with a 
flurry of unfamiliar words. I flushed a little as I 
thought of the downy mess in the white room, which 
they would soon encounter. The little man smiled at 
me politely. 

But the tiny coffee-skinned woman didn’t smile. She 
stared at me with a mixture of shock, worry, and 
most of all, wide-eyed fear. Before I could react, 
Edward motioned for them to follow him toward the 
chicken coop, and they were gone. When he 
reappeared, he was alone. He walked swiftly to my 
side and wrapped his arms around me. 

“What’s with her?” I whispered urgently, remembering 
her panicked expression. He shrugged, unperturbed. 
“Kaure’s part Ticuna Indian. She was raised to be 
more superstitious — or you could call it more aware — 
than those who live in the modern world. She 
suspects what I am, or close enough.” He still didn’t 
sound worried. “They have their own legends here. 



129 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The Libishomen — a blood-drinking demon who preys 
exclusively on beautiful women.” He leered at me. 

Beautiful women only? Well, that was kind of 
flattering. 

“She looked terrified,” I said. 

“She is — but mostly she’s worried about you.” 

“Me?” 

“She’s afraid of why I have you here, all alone.” He 
chuckled darkly and then looked toward the wall of 
movies. “Oh well, why don’t you choose something for 
us to watch? 

That’s an acceptably human thing to do.” 

“Yes, I’m sure a movie will convince her that you’re 
human.” I laughed and clasped my arms securely 
around his neck, stretching up on my tiptoes. He 
leaned down so that I could kiss him, and then his 
arms tightened around me, lifting me off the floor so 
he didn’t have to bend. 

“Movie, schmovie,” I muttered as his lips moved down 
my throat, twisting my fingers in his bronze hair. 

Then I heard a gasp, and he put me down abruptly. 
Kaure stood frozen in the hallway, feathers in her 
black hair, a large sack of more feathers in her arms, 
an expression of horror on her face. She stared at me, 
her eyes bugging out, as I blushed and looked down. 
Then she recovered herself and murmured something 
that, even in an unfamiliar language, was clearly an 
apology. Edward smiled and answered in a friendly 



130 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




tone. She turned her dark eyes away and continued 
down the hall. 

“She was thinking what I think she was thinking, 
wasn’t she?” I muttered. He laughed at my convoluted 
sentence. “Yes.” 

“Here,” I said, reaching out at random and grabbing a 
movie. “Put this on and we can pretend to watch it.” 

It was an old musical with smiling faces and fluffy 
dresses on the front. 

“Very honeymoonish,” Edward approved. 

While actors on the screen danced their way through 
a perky introduction song, I lolled on the sofa, 
snuggled into Edward’s arms. 

“Will we move back into the white room now?” I 
wondered idly. 

“I don’t know.... I’ve already mangled the headboard 
in the other room beyond repair — 

maybe if we limit the destruction to one area of the 
house, Esme might invite us back someday.” 

I smiled widely. “So there will be more destruction?” 

He laughed at my expression. “I think it might be 
safer if it’s premeditated, rather than if I wait for you 
to assault me again.” 

“It would only be a matter of time,” I agreed casually, 
but my pulse was racing in my veins. 

“Is there something the matter with your heart?” 



131 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nope. Healthy as a horse.” I paused. “Did you want 
to go survey the demolition zone now?” 

“Maybe it would be more polite to wait until we’re 
alone. You may not notice me tearing the furniture 
apart, but it would probably scare them.” 

In truth, I’d already forgotten the people in the other 
room. “Right. Drat.” 

Gustavo and Kaure moved quietly through the house 
while I waited impatiently for them to finish and tried 
to pay attention to the happily-ever-after on the 
screen. I was starting to get sleepy — though, 
according to Edward, I’d slept half the day — when a 
rough voice startled me. Edward sat up, keeping me 
cradled against him, and answered Gustavo in 
flowing Portuguese. Gustavo nodded and walked 
quietly toward the front door. 

“They’re finished,” Edward told me. 

“So that would mean that we’re alone now?” 

“How about lunch first?” he suggested. 

I bit my lip, torn by the dilemma. I was pretty hungry. 
With a smile, he took my hand and led me to the 
kitchen. He knew my face so well, it didn’t matter that 
he couldn’t read my mind. 

“This is getting out of hand,” I complained when I 
finally felt full. 

“Do you want to swim with the dolphins this 
afternoon — burn off the calories?” he asked. 



132 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Maybe later. I had another idea for burning calories.” 
“And what was that?” 

“Well, there’s an awful lot of headboard left — ” 

But I didn’t finish. He’d already swept me up into his 
arms, and his lips silenced mine as he carried me 
with inhuman speed to the blue room. 



133 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




7 



UNEXPECTED 

The line of black advanced on me through the 
shroud-like mist. I could see their dark ruby eyes 
glinting with desire, lusting for the kill. Their lips 
pulled back over their sharp, wet teeth — some to 
snarl, some to smile. 

I heard the child behind me whimper, but I couldn’t 
turn to look at him. Though I was desperate to be 
sure that he was safe, I could not afford any lapse in 
focus now. They ghosted closer, their black robes 
billowing slightly with the movement. I saw their 
hands curl into bone-colored claws. They started to 
drift apart, angling to come at us from all sides. We 
were surrounded. We were going to die. 

And then, like a burst of light from a flash, the whole 
scene was different. Yet nothing changed — the Volturi 
still stalked toward us, poised to kill. All that really 
changed was how the picture looked to me. Suddenly, 
I was hungry for it. I wanted them to charge. The 
panic changed to bloodlust as I crouched forward, a 
smile on my face, and a growl ripped through my 
bared teeth. 

I jolted upright, shocked out of the dream. 

The room was black. It was also steamy hot. Sweat 
matted my hair at the temples and rolled down my 
throat. 

I groped the warm sheets and found them empty. 



134 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“Edward?” 



Just then, my fingers encountered something smooth 
and flat and stiff. One sheet of paper, folded in half. I 
took the note with me and felt my way across the 
room to the light switch. 

The outside of the note was addressed to Mrs. Cullen. 

I’m hoping you won’t wake and notice my absence, 
but, if you should, I’ll be back very soon. I’ve just 
gone to the mainland to hunt. Go back to sleep and 
I’ll be here when you wake again. I love you. 

I sighed. We’d been here about two weeks now, so I 
should have been expecting that he would have to 
leave, but I hadn’t been thinking about time. We 
seemed to exist outside of time here, just drifting 
along in a perfect state. 

I wiped the sweat off my forehead. I felt absolutely 
wide awake, though the clock on the dresser said it 
was after one. I knew I would never be able to sleep as 
hot and sticky as I felt. Not to mention the fact that if 
I shut off the light and closed my eyes, I was sure to 
see those prowling black figures in my head. 

I got up and wandered aimlessly through the dark 
house, flipping on lights. It felt so big and empty 
without Edward there. Different. 

I ended up in the kitchen and decided that maybe 
comfort food was what I needed. I poked around in 
the fridge until I found all the ingredients for fried 
chicken. The popping and sizzling of the chicken in 



135 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the pan was a nice, homey sound; I felt less nervous 
while it filled the silence. 

It smelled so good that I started eating it right out of 
the pan, burning my tongue in the process. By the 
fifth or sixth bite, though, it had cooled enough for me 
to taste it. My chewing slowed. Was there something 
off about the flavor? I checked the meat, and it was 
white all the way through, but I wondered if it was 
completely done. I took another experimental bite; I 
chewed twice. Ugh — definitely bad. I jumped up to 
spit it into the sink. Suddenly, the chicken-and-oil 
smell was revolting. I took the whole plate and shook 
it into the garbage, then opened the windows to chase 
away the scent. A coolish breeze had picked up 
outside. It felt good on my skin. 

I was abruptly exhausted, but I didn’t want to go back 
to the hot room. So I opened more windows in the TV 
room and lay on the couch right beneath them. I 
turned on the same movie we’d watched the other day 
and quickly fell asleep to the bright opening song. 

When I opened my eyes again, the sun was halfway 
up the sky, but it was not the light that woke me. 

Cool arms were around me, pulling me against him. 

At the same time, a sudden pain twisted in my 
stomach, almost like the aftershock of catching a 
punch in the gut. 

“I’m sorry,” Edward was murmuring as he wiped a 
wintry hand across my clammy forehead. “So much 
for thoroughness. I didn’t think about how hot you 
would be with me gone. I’ll have an air conditioner 
installed before I leave again.” 



136 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t concentrate on what he was saying. 

“Excuse me!” I gasped, struggling to get free of his 
arms. 

He dropped his hold automatically. “Bella?” 

I streaked for the bathroom with my hand clamped 
over my mouth. I felt so horrible that I didn’t even 
care — at first — that he was with me while I crouched 
over the toilet and was violently sick. 

“Bella? What’s wrong?” 

I couldn’t answer yet. He held me anxiously, keeping 
my hair out of my face, waiting till I could breathe 
again. 

“Damn rancid chicken,” I moaned. 

“Are you all right?” His voice was strained. 

“Fine,” I panted. “It’s just food poisoning. You don’t 
need to see this. Go away.” 

“Not likely, Bella.” 

“Go away,” I moaned again, struggling to get up so I 
could rinse my mouth out. He helped me gently, 
ignoring the weak shoves I aimed at him. 

After my mouth was clean, he carried me to the bed 
and sat me down carefully, supporting me with his 
arms. 

“Food poisoning?” 

“Yeah,” I croaked. “I made some chicken last night. It 
tasted off, so I threw it out. But I ate a few bites first.” 



137 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He put a cold hand on my forehead. It felt nice. “How 
do you feel now?” 

I thought about that for a moment. The nausea had 
passed as suddenly as it had come, and I felt like I 
did any other morning. “Pretty normal. A little 
hungry, actually.” 

He made me wait an hour and keep down a big glass 
of water before he fried me some eggs. I felt perfectly 
normal, just a little tired from being up in the middle 
of the night. He put on CNN — we’d been so out of 
touch, world war three could have broken out and we 
wouldn’t have known — and I lounged drowsily across 
his lap. 

I got bored with the news and twisted around to kiss 
him. Just like this morning, a sharp pain hit my 
stomach when I moved. I lurched away from him, my 
hand tight over my mouth. I knew I’d never make it to 
the bathroom this time, so I ran to the kitchen sink. 
He held my hair again. 

“Maybe we should go back to Rio, see a doctor,” he 
suggested anxiously when I was rinsing my mouth 
afterward. 

I shook my head and edged toward the hallway. 
Doctors meant needles. “I’ll be fine right after I brush 
my teeth.” 

When my mouth tasted better, I searched through my 
suitcase for the little first-aid kit Alice had packed for 
me, full of human things like bandages and 
painkillers and — my object now — Pepto-Bismol. 

Maybe I could settle my stomach and calm Edward 



138 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




down. But before I found the Pepto, I happened 
across something else that Alice had packed for me. I 
picked up the small blue box and stared at it in my 
hand for a long moment, forgetting everything else. 

Then I started counting in my head. Once. Twice. 
Again. 

The knock startled me; the little box fell back into the 
suitcase. 

“Are you well?” Edward asked through the door. “Did 
you get sick again?” 

“Yes and no,” I said, but my voice sounded strangled. 
“Bella? Can I please come in?” Worriedly now. 

“O... kay?” 

He came in and appraised my position, sitting cross- 
legged on the floor by the suitcase, and my 
expression, blank and staring. He sat next to me, his 
hand going to my forehead at once. 

“What’s wrong?” 

“How many days has it been since the wedding?” I 
whispered. 

“Seventeen,” he answered automatically. “Bella, what 
is it?” 



I was counting again. I held up a finger, cautioning 
him to wait, and mouthed the numbers to myself. I’d 
been wrong about the days before. We’d been here 
longer than I’d thought. I started over again. 



139 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella!” he whispered urgently. “I’m losing my mind 
over here.” 

I tried to swallow. It didn’t work. So I reached into the 
suitcase and fumbled around until I found the little 
blue box of tampons again. I held them up silently. 

He stared at me in confusion. “What? Are you trying 
to pass this illness off as PMS?” 

“No,” I managed to choke out. “No, Edward. I’m trying 
to tell you that my period is five days late.” 

His facial expression didn’t change. It was like I 
hadn’t spoken. 

“I don’t think I have food poisoning,” I added. 

He didn’t respond. He had turned into a sculpture. 

“The dreams,” I mumbled to myself in a flat voice. 
“Sleeping so much. The crying. All that food. Oh. Oh. 
Oh.” 

Edward’s stare seemed glassy, as if he couldn’t see 
me anymore. Reflexively, almost involuntarily, my 
hand dropped to my stomach. 

“Oh!” I squeaked again. 

I lurched to my feet, slipping out of Edward’s 
unmoving hands. I’d never changed out of the little 
silk shorts and camisole I’d worn to bed. I yanked the 
blue fabric out of the way and stared at my stomach. 

“Impossible,” I whispered. 

I had absolutely no experience with pregnancy or 
babies or any part of that world, but I wasn’t an idiot. 



140 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’d seen enough movies and TV shows to know that 
this wasn’t how it worked. I was only five days late. If 
I was pregnant, my body wouldn’t even have 
registered that fact. I would not have morning 
sickness. I would not have changed my eating or 
sleeping habits. 

And I most definitely would not have a small but 
defined bump sticking out between my hips. 

I twisted my torso back and forth, examining it from 
every angle, as if it would disappear in exactly the 
right light. I ran my fingers over the subtle bulge, 
surprised by how rock hard it felt under my skin. 

“Impossible,” I said again, because, bulge or no bulge, 
period or no period (and there was definitely no 
period, though I’d never been late a day in my life), 
there was no way I could be pregnant. The only 
person I’d ever had sex with was a vampire, for crying 
out loud. 

A vampire who was still frozen on the floor with no 
sign of ever moving again. So there had to be some 
other explanation, then. Something wrong with me. A 
strange South American disease with all the signs of 
pregnancy, only accelerated... 

And then I remembered something — a morning of 
internet research that seemed a lifetime ago now. 
Sitting at the old desk in my room at Charlie’s house 
with gray light glowing dully through the window, 
staring at my ancient, wheezing computer, reading 
avidly through a web-site called “Vampires A-Z.” It 
had been less than twenty-four hours since Jacob 
Black, trying to entertain me with the Quileute 
141 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




legends he didn’t believe in yet, had told me that 
Edward was a vampire. I’d scanned anxiously 
through the first entries on the site, which was 
dedicated to vampire myths around the world. The 
Filipino Danag, the Hebrew Estrie, the Romanian 
Varacolaci, the Italian Stregoni benefici (a legend 
actually based on my new father-in-law’s early 
exploits with the Volturi, not that I’d known anything 
about that at the time)... I’d paid less and less 
attention as the stories had grown more and more 
implausible. I only remembered vague bits of the later 
entries. They mostly seemed like excuses dreamed up 
to explain things like infant mortality rates — and 
infidelity. No, honey, I’m not having an affair! That 
sexy woman you saw sneaking out of the house was 
an evil succubus. I’m lucky I escaped with my life! (Of 
course, with what I knew now about Tanya and her 
sisters, I suspected that some of those excuses had 
been nothing but fact.) There had been one for the 
ladies, too. How can you accuse me of cheating on 
you — just because you’ve come home from a two-year 
sea voyage and I’m pregnant? It was the incubus. He 
hypnotized me with his mystical vampire powers.... 

That had been part of the definition of the incubus — 
the ability to father children with his hapless prey. 

I shook my head, dazed. But... 

I thought of Esme and especially Rosalie. Vampires 
couldn’t have children. If it were possible, Rosalie 
would have found a way by now. The incubus myth 
was nothing but a fable. 



142 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Except that... well, there was a difference. Of course 
Rosalie could not conceive a child, because she was 
frozen in the state in which she passed from human 
to inhuman. Totally unchanging. And human 
women’s bodies had to change to bear children. The 
constant change of a monthly cycle for one thing, and 
then the bigger changes needed to accommodate a 
growing child. Rosalie’s body couldn’t change. 

But mine could. Mine did. I touched the bump on my 
stomach that had not been there yesterday. 

And human men — well, they pretty much stayed the 
same from puberty to death. I remembered a random 
bit of trivia, gleaned from who knows where: Charlie 
Chaplin was in his seventies when he fathered his 
youngest child. Men had no such thing as child- 
bearing years or cycles of fertility. 

Of course, how would anyone know if vampire men 
could father children, when their partners were not 
able? What vampire on earth would have the restraint 
necessary to test the theory with a human woman? 

Or the inclination? 

I could think of only one. 

Part of my head was sorting through fact and memory 
and speculation, while the other half — the part that 
controlled the ability to move even the smallest 
muscles — was stunned beyond the capacity for 
normal operations. I couldn’t move my lips to speak, 
though I wanted to ask Edward to please explain to 
me what was going on. I needed to go back to where 
he sat, to touch him, but my body wouldn’t follow 
instructions. I could only stare at my shocked eyes in 
143 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the mirror, my fingers gingerly pressed against the 
swelling on my torso. 

And then, like in my vivid nightmare last night, the 
scene abruptly transformed. Everything I saw in the 
mirror looked completely different, though nothing 
actually was different. 

What happened to change everything was that a soft 
little nudge bumped my hand — 

from inside my body. 

In the same moment, Edward’s phone rang, shrill and 
demanding. Neither of us moved. It rang again and 
again. I tried to tune it out while I pressed my fingers 
to my stomach, waiting. In the mirror my expression 
was no longer bewildered — it was wondering now. I 
barely noticed when the strange, silent tears started 
streaming down my cheeks. The phone kept ringing. I 
wished Edward would answer it — I was having a 
moment. Possibly the biggest of my life. 

Ring! Ring! Ring! 

Finally, the annoyance broke through everything else. 
I got down on my knees next to Edward — I found 
myself moving more carefully, a thousand times more 
aware of the way each motion felt — and patted his 
pockets until I found the phone. I half-expected him 
to thaw out and answer it himself, but he was 
perfectly still. I recognized the number, and I could 
easily guess why she was calling. 

“Hi, Alice,” I said. My voice wasn’t much better than 
before. I cleared my throat. 



144 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella? Bella, are you okay?” 

“Yeah. Um. Is Carlisle there?” 

“He is. What’s the problem?” 

“I’m not... one hundred percent... sure. . . .” 

“Is Edward all right?” she asked warily. She called 
Carlisle’s name away from the phone and then 
demanded, “Why didn’t he pick up the phone?” before 
I could answer her first question. 

“I’m not sure.” 

“Bella, what’s going on? I just saw — ” 

“What did you see?” 

There was a silence. “Here’s Carlisle,” she finally said. 

It felt like ice water had been injected in my veins. If 
Alice had seen a vision of me with a green-eyed, 
angel-faced child in my arms, she would have 
answered me, wouldn’t she? 

While I waited through the split second it took for 
Carlisle to speak, the vision I’d imagined for Alice 
danced behind my lids. A tiny, beautiful little baby, 
even more beautiful than the boy in my dream — a tiny 
Edward in my arms. Warmth shot through my veins, 
chasing the ice away. 

“Bella, it’s Carlisle. What’s going on?” 

“I — ” I wasn’t sure how to answer. Would he laugh at 
my conclusions, tell me I was crazy? Was I just 



145 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




having another colorful dream? “I’m a little worried 
about Edward.... 



Can vampires go into shock?” 

“Has he been harmed?” Carlisle’s voice was suddenly 
urgent. 

“No, no,” I assured him. “Just... taken by surprise.” 

“I don’t understand, Bella.” 

“I think... well, I think that... maybe... I might be . . .” 
I took a deep breath. 

“Pregnant.” 

As if to back me up, there was another tiny nudge in 
my abdomen. My hand flew to my stomach. 

After a long pause, Carlisle’s medical training kicked 
in. 



“When was the first day of your last menstrual cycle?” 

“Sixteen days before the wedding.” I’d done the 
mental math thoroughly enough just before to be able 
to answer with certainty. 

“How do you feel?” 

“Weird,” I told him, and my voice broke. Another 
trickle of tears dribbled down my cheeks. “This is 
going to sound crazy — look, I know it’s way too early 
for any of this. Maybe I am crazy. But I’m having 
bizarre dreams and eating all the time and crying and 
throwing up and... and... I swear something moved 
inside me just now.” 



146 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s head snapped up. 

I sighed in relief. 

Edward held his hand out for the phone, his face 
white and hard. 

“Urn, I think Edward wants to talk to you.” 

“Put him on,” Carlisle said in a strained voice. 

Not entirely sure that Edward could talk, I put the 
phone in his outstretched hand. He pressed it to his 
ear. “Is it possible?” he whispered. 

He listened for a long time, staring blankly at nothing. 

“And Bella?” he asked. His arm wrapped around me 
as he spoke, pulling me close into his side. 

He listened for what seemed like a long time and then 
said, “Yes. Yes, I will.” 

He pulled the phone away from his ear and pressed 
the “end” button. Right away, he dialed a new 
number. 

“What did Carlisle say?” I asked impatiently. 

Edward answered in a lifeless voice. “He thinks you’re 
pregnant.” 

The words sent a warm shiver down my spine. The 
little nudger fluttered inside me. 

“Who are you calling now?” I asked as he put the 
phone back to his ear. 

“The airport. We’re going home.” 



147 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward was on the phone for more than an hour 
without a break. I guessed that he was arranging our 
flight home, but I couldn’t be sure because he wasn’t 
speaking English. It sounded like he was arguing; he 
spoke through his teeth a lot. 

While he argued, he packed. He whirled around the 
room like an angry tornado, leaving order rather than 
destruction in his path. He threw a set of my clothes 
on the bed without looking at them, so I assumed it 
was time for me to get dressed. He continued with his 
argument while I changed, gesturing with sudden, 
agitated movements. When I could no longer bear the 
violent energy radiating out of him, I quietly left the 
room. His manic concentration made me sick to my 
stomach — not like the morning sickness, just 
uncomfortable. I would wait somewhere else for his 
mood to pass. I couldn’t talk to this icy, focused 
Edward who honestly frightened me a little. Once 
again, I ended up in the kitchen. There was a bag of 
pretzels in the cupboard. I started chewing on them 
absently, staring out the window at the sand and 
rocks and trees and ocean, everything glittering in the 
sun. 

Someone nudged me. 

“I know,” I said. “I don’t want to go, either.” 

I stared out the window for a moment, but the nudger 
didn’t respond. 

“I don’t understand,” I whispered. “What is wrong 
here?” 



Surprising, absolutely. Astonishing, even. But wrong? 

148 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




No. 



So why was Edward so furious? He was the one who 
had actually wished out loud for a shotgun wedding. 

I tried to reason through it. 

Maybe it wasn’t so confusing that Edward wanted us 
to go home right away. He’d want Carlisle to check me 
out, make sure my assumption was right — though 
there was absolutely no doubt in my head at this 
point. Probably they’d want to figure out why I was 
already so pregnant, with the bump and the nudging 
and all of that. That wasn’t normal. 

Once I thought of this, I was sure I had it. He must be 
so worried about the baby. I hadn’t gotten around to 
freaking out yet. My brain worked slower than his — it 
was still stuck marveling over the picture it had 
conjured up before: the tiny child with Edward’s 
eyes — green, as his had been when he was human — 
lying fair and beautiful in my arms. I hoped he would 
have Edward’s face exactly, with no interference from 
mine. It was funny how abruptly and entirely 
necessary this vision had become. From that first 
little touch, the whole world had shifted. Where before 
there was just one thing I could not live without, now 
there were two. There was no division — my love was 
not split between them now; it wasn’t like that. It was 
more like my heart had grown, swollen up to twice its 
size in that moment. All that extra space, already 
filled. The increase was almost dizzying. 

I’d never really understood Rosalie’s pain and 
resentment before. I’d never imagined myself a 
mother, never wanted that. It had been a piece of 

149 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




cake to promise Edward that I didn’t care about 
giving up children for him, because I truly didn’t. 
Children, in the abstract, had never appealed to me. 
They seemed to be loud creatures, often dripping 
some form of goo. I’d never had much to do with 
them. When I’d dreamed of Renee providing me with a 
brother, I’d always imagined an older brother. 
Someone to take care of me, rather than the other 
way around. 

This child, Edward’s child, was a whole different 
story. 

I wanted him like I wanted air to breathe. Not a 
choice — a necessity. Maybe I just had a really bad 
imagination. Maybe that was why I’d been unable to 
imagine that I would like being married until after I 
already was — unable to see that I would want a baby 
until after one was already coming. . . . 

As I put my hand on my stomach, waiting for the next 
nudge, tears streaked down my cheeks again. 

“Bella?” 

I turned, made wary by the tone of his voice. It was 
too cold, too careful. His face matched his voice, 
empty and hard. 

And then he saw that I was crying. 

“Bella!” He crossed the room in a flash and put his 
hands on my face. “Are you in pain?” 

“No, no—” 



150 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He pulled me against his chest. “Don’t be afraid. We’ll 
be home in sixteen hours. You’ll be fine. Carlisle will 
be ready when we get there. We’ll take care of this, 
and you’ll be fine, you’ll be fine.” 

“Take care of this? What do you mean?” 

He leaned away and looked me in the eye. “We’re 
going to get that thing out before it can hurt any part 
of you. Don’t be scared. I won’t let it hurt you.” 

“That thing?” I gasped. 

He looked sharply away from me, toward the front 
door. “Dammit! I forgot Gustavo was due today. I’ll get 
rid of him and be right back.” He darted out of the 
room. I clutched the counter for support. My knees 
were wobbly. 

Edward had just called my little nudger a thing. He 
said Carlisle would get it out. 

“No,” I whispered. 

I’d gotten it wrong before. He didn’t care about the 
baby at all. He wanted to hurt him. The beautiful 
picture in my head shifted abruptly, changed into 
something dark. My pretty baby crying, my weak 
arms not enough to protect him.... 

What could I do? Would I be able to reason with 
them? What if I couldn’t? Did this explain Alice’s 
strange silence on the phone? Is that what she’d 
seen? Edward and Carlisle killing that pale, perfect 
child before he could live? 



151 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No,” I whispered again, my voice stronger. That could 
not be. I would not allow it. I heard Edward speaking 
Portuguese again. Arguing again. His voice got closer, 
and I heard him grunt in exasperation. Then I heard 
another voice, low and timid. A woman’s voice. 

He came into the kitchen ahead of her and went 
straight to me. He wiped the tears from my cheeks 
and murmured in my ear through the thin, hard line 
of his lips. 

“She’s insisting on leaving the food she brought — she 
made us dinner.” If he had been less tense, less 
furious, I knew he would have rolled his eyes. “It’s an 
excuse — she wants to make sure I haven’t killed you 
yet.” His voice went ice cold at the end. Kaure edged 
nervously around the corner with a covered dish in 
her hands. I wished I could speak Portuguese, or that 
my Spanish was less rudimentary, so that I could try 
to thank this woman who had dared to anger a 
vampire just to check on me. Her eyes flickered 
between the two of us. I saw her measuring the color 
in my face, the moisture in my eyes. Mumbling 
something I didn’t understand, she put the dish on 
the counter. 

Edward snapped something at her; I’d never heard 
him be so impolite before. She turned to go, and the 
whirling motion of her long skirt wafted the smell of 
the food into my face. It was strong — onions and fish. 

I gagged and whirled for the sink. I felt Edward’s 
hands on my forehead and heard his soothing 
murmur through the roaring in my ears. His hands 
disappeared for a second, and I heard the refrigerator 
slam shut. Mercifully, the smell disappeared with the 

152 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




sound, and Edward’s hands were cooling my clammy 
face again. It was over quickly. 

I rinsed my mouth in the tap while he caressed the 
side of my face. There was a tentative little nudge in 
my womb. 

It’s okay. We’re okay, I thought toward the bump. 

Edward turned me around, pulling me into his arms. 

I rested my head on his shoulder. My hands, 
instinctively, folded over my stomach. 

I heard a little gasp and I looked up. 

The woman was still there, hesitating in the doorway 
with her hands half-outstretched as if she had been 
looking for some way to help. Her eyes were locked on 
my hands, popping wide with shock. Her mouth hung 
open. 

Then Edward gasped, too, and he suddenly turned to 
face the woman, pushing me slightly behind his body. 
His arm wrapped across my torso, like he was holding 
me back. 

Suddenly, Kaure was shouting at him — loudly, 
furiously, her unintelligible words flying across the 
room like knives. She raised her tiny fist in the air 
and took two steps forward, shaking it at him. 

Despite her ferocity, it was easy to see the terror in 
her eyes. Edward stepped toward her, too, and I 
clutched at his arm, frightened for the woman. But 
when he interrupted her tirade, his voice took me by 
surprise, especially considering how sharp he’d been 
with her when she wasn’t screeching at him. It was 



153 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




low now; it was pleading. Not only that, but the sound 
was different, more guttural, the cadence off. I didn’t 
think he was speaking Portuguese anymore. 

For a moment, the woman stared at him in wonder, 
and then her eyes narrowed as she barked out a long 
question in the same alien tongue. 

I watched as his face grew sad and serious, and he 
nodded once. She took a quick step back and crossed 
herself. 

He reached out to her, gesturing toward me and then 
resting his hand against my cheek. She replied 
angrily again, waving her hands accusingly toward 
him, and then gestured to him. When she finished, he 
pleaded again with the same low, urgent voice. Her 
expression changed — she stared at him with doubt 
plain on her face as he spoke, her eyes repeatedly 
flashing to my confused face. He stopped speaking, 
and she seemed to be deliberating something. She 
looked back and forth between the two of us, and 
then, unconsciously it seemed, took a step forward. 

She made a motion with her hands, miming a shape 
like a balloon jutting out from her stomach. I 
started — did her legends of the predatory blood- 
drinker include this? Could she possibly know 
something about what was growing inside me? 

She walked a few steps forward deliberately this time 
and asked a few brief questions, which he responded 
to tensely. Then he became the questioner — one quick 
query. She hesitated and then slowly shook her head. 
When he spoke again, his voice was so agonized that I 
looked up at him in shock. His face was drawn with 
154 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




pain. In answer, she walked slowly forward until she 
was close enough to lay her small hand on top of 
mine, over my stomach. She spoke one word in 
Portuguese. 

“Morte,” she sighed quietly. Then she turned, her 
shoulders bent as if the conversation had aged her, 
and left the room. 

I knew enough Spanish for that one. 

Edward was frozen again, staring after her with the 
tortured expression fixed on his face. A few moments 
later, I heard a boat’s engine putter to life and then 
fade into the distance. 

Edward did not move until I started for the bathroom. 
Then his hand caught my shoulder. 

“Where are you going?” His voice was a whisper of 
pain. 

“To brush my teeth again.” 

“Don’t worry about what she said. It’s nothing but 
legends, old lies for the sake of entertainment.” 

“I didn’t understand anything,” I told him, though it 
wasn’t entirely true. As if I could discount something 
because it was a legend. My life was circled by legend 
on every side. They were all true. 

“I packed your toothbrush. I’ll get it for you.” 

He walked ahead of me to the bedroom. 

“Are we leaving soon?” I called after him. 



155 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“As soon as you’re done.” 

He waited for my toothbrush to repack it, pacing 
silently around the bedroom. I handed it to him when 
I was finished. 

“I’ll get the bags into the boat.” 

“Edward—” 

He turned back. “Yes?” 

I hesitated, trying to think of some way to get a few 
seconds alone. “Could you... pack some of the food? 
You know, in case I get hungry again.” 

“Of course,” he said, his eyes suddenly soft. “Don’t 
worry about anything. We’ll get to Carlisle in just a 
few hours, really. This will all be over soon.” 

I nodded, not trusting my voice. 

He turned and left the room, one big suitcase in each 
hand. 

I whirled and scooped up the phone he’d left on the 
counter. It was very unlike him to forget things — to 
forget that Gustavo was coming, to leave his phone 
lying here. He was so stressed he was barely himself. 

I flipped it open and scrolled through the 
preprogrammed numbers. I was glad he had the 
sound turned off, afraid that he would catch me. 
Would he be at the boat now? Or back already? 

Would he hear me from the kitchen if I whispered? 

I found the number I wanted, one I had never called 
before in my life. I pressed the 

156 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“send” button and crossed my fingers. 

“Hello?” the voice like golden wind chimes answered. 

“Rosalie?” I whispered. “It’s Bella. Please. You have to 
help me.” 



157 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




BOOK TWO 

Jacob 



And yet, to say the truth, 

reason and love keep little company together 
nowadays. 

William Shakespeare 

A Midsummer Night’s Dream 



Act III, Scene i 

158 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





Life sucks, and then you die. 
Yeah, I should be so lucky. 



159 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



WAITING FOR THE DAMN FIGHT TO START 
ALREADY 

“Jeez, Paul, don’t you freaking have a home of your 
own?” 

Paul, lounging across my whole couch, watching 
some stupid baseball game on my crappy TV, just 
grinned at me and then — real slow — he lifted one 
Dorito from the bag in his lap and wedged it into his 
mouth in one piece. 

“You better ’ve brought those with you.” 

Crunch. “Nope,” he said while chewing. “Your sister 
said to go ahead and help myself to anything I 
wanted.” 

I tried to make my voice sound like I wasn’t about to 
punch him. “Is Rachel here now?” 

It didn’t work. He heard where I was going and 
shoved the bag behind his back. The bag crackled as 
he smashed it into the cushion. The chips crunched 
into pieces. Paul’s hands came up in fists, close to his 
face like a boxer. 

“Bring it, kid. I don’t need Rachel to protect me.” 

I snorted. “Right. Like you wouldn’t go crying to her 
first chance.” 

He laughed and relaxed into the sofa, dropping his 
hands. “I’m not going to go tattle to a girl. If you got in 
a lucky hit, that would be just between the two of us. 
And vice versa, right?” 

160 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



Nice of him to give me an invitation. I made my body 
slump like I’d given up. “Right.” 

His eyes shifted to the TV. 

I lunged. 

His nose made a very satisfying crunching sound of 
its own when my fist connected. He tried to grab me, 
but I danced out of the way before he could find a 
hold, the ruined bag of Doritos in my left hand. 

“You broke my nose, idiot.” 

“Just between us, right, Paul?” 

I went to put the chips away. When I turned around, 
Paul was repositioning his nose before it could set 
crooked. The blood had already stopped; it looked like 
it had no source as it trickled down his lips and off 
his chin. He cussed, wincing as he pulled at the 
cartilage. 

“You are such a pain, Jacob. I swear, I’d rather hang 
out with Leah.” 

“Ouch. Wow, I bet Leah’s really going to love to hear 
that you want to spend some quality time with her. 
It’ll just warm the cockles of her heart.” 

“You’re going to forget I said that.” 

“Of course. I’m sure it won’t slip out.” 

“Ugh,” he grunted, and then settled back into the 
couch, wiping the leftover blood on the collar of his t- 
shirt. “You’re fast, kid. I’ll give you that.” He turned 
his attention back to the fuzzy game. 



161 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I stood there for a second, and then I stalked off to my 
room, muttering about alien abductions. 



Back in the day, you could count on Paul for a fight 
pretty much whenever. You didn’t have to hit him 
then — any mild insult would do. It didn’t take a lot to 
flip him out of control. Now, of course, when I really 
wanted a good snarling, ripping, break-the-treesdown 
match, he had to be all mellow. Wasn’t it bad enough 
that yet another member of the pack had imprinted — 
because, really, that made four of ten now! When 
would it stop? Stupid myth was supposed to be rare, 
for crying out loud! All this mandatory love-at-first- 
sight was completely sickening! 

Did it have to be my sister? Did it have to be Paul? 

When Rachel’d come home from Washington State at 
the end of the summer semester 

— graduated early, the nerd — my biggest worry’d been 
that it would be hard keeping the secret around her. I 
wasn’t used to covering things up in my own home. It 
made me real sympathetic to kids like Embry and 
Collin, whose parents didn’t know they were 
werewolves. Embry’s mom thought he was going 
through some kind of rebellious stage. He was 
permanently grounded for constantly sneaking out, 
but, of course, there wasn’t much he could do about 
that. She’d check his room every night, and every 
night it would be empty again. She’d yell and he’d 
take it in silence, and then go through it all again the 
next day. We’d tried to talk Sam into giving Embry a 
break and letting his mom in on the gig, but Embry’d 
said he didn’t mind. The secret was too important. So 
I’d been all geared up to be keeping that secret. And 
then, two days after Rachel got home, Paul ran into 
her on the beach. Bada bing, bada boom — true love! 
No secrets necessary when you found your other half, 
162 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




and all that imprinting werewolf garbage. Rachel got 
the whole story. And I got Paul as a brother-in-law 
someday. I knew Billy wasn’t much thrilled about it, 
either. But he handled it better than I did. ’Course, he 
did escape to the Clearwaters’ more often than usual 
these days. I didn’t see where that was so much 
better. No Paul, but plenty of Leah. 

I wondered — would a bullet through my temple 
actually kill me or just leave a really big mess for me 
to clean up? 

I threw myself down on the bed. I was tired — hadn’t 
slept since my last patrol — but I knew I wasn’t going 
to sleep. My head was too crazy. The thoughts 
bounced around inside my skull like a disoriented 
swarm of bees. Noisy. Now and then they stung. Must 
be hornets, not bees. Bees died after one sting. And 
the same thoughts were stinging me again and again. 

This waiting was driving me insane. It had been 
almost four weeks. I’d expected, one way or another, 
the news would have come by now. I’d sat up nights 
imagining what form it would take. 

Charlie sobbing on the phone — Bella and her 
husband lost in an accident. A plane crash? That 
would be hard to fake. Unless the leeches didn’t mind 
killing a bunch of bystanders to authenticate it, and 
why would they? Maybe a small plane instead. They 
probably had one of those to spare. 

Or would the murderer come home alone, 
unsuccessful in his attempt to make her one of them? 
Or not even getting that far. Maybe he’d smashed her 
like a bag of chips in his drive to get some? Because 
her life was less important to him than his own 
pleasure... 



163 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The story would be so tragic — Bella lost in a horrible 
accident. Victim of a mugging gone wrong. Choking to 
death at dinner. A car accident, like my mom. So 
common. Happened all the time. 

Would he bring her home? Bury her here for Charlie? 
Closed-casket ceremony, of course. My mom’s coffin 
had been nailed shut.... 

I could only hope that he’d come back here, within my 
reach. 

Maybe there would be no story at all. Maybe Charlie 
would call to ask my dad if he’d heard anything from 
Dr. Cullen, who just didn’t show up to work one day. 
The house abandoned. No answer on any of the 
Cullens’ phones. The mystery picked up by some 
second-rate news program, foul play suspected... 

Maybe the big white house would burn to the ground, 
everyone trapped inside. Of course, they’d need 
bodies for that one. Eight humans of roughly the right 
size. Burned beyond recognition — beyond the help of 
dental records. 

Either of those would be tricky — for me, that is. It 
would be hard to find them if they didn’t want to be 
found. Of course, I had forever to look. If you had 
forever, you could check out every single piece of 
straw in the haystack, one by one, to see if it was the 
needle. 

Right now, I wouldn’t mind dismantling a haystack. 

At least that would be something to do. I hated 
knowing that I could be losing my chance. Giving the 
bloodsuckers the time to escape, if that was their 
plan. 



164 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




We could go tonight. We could kill every one of them 
that we could find. I liked that plan because I knew 
Edward well enough to know that, if I killed any one 
of his coven, I would get my chance at him, too. He’d 
come for revenge. And I’d give it to him — I wouldn’t let 
my brothers take him down as a pack. It would be 
just him and me. May the better man win. 

But Sam wouldn’t hear of it. We’re not going to break 
the treaty. Let them make the breach. Just because we 
had no proof that the Cullens had done anything 
wrong. Yet. You had to add the yet, because we all 
knew it was inevitable. Bella was either coming back 
one of them, or not coming back. Either way, a 
human life had been lost. And that meant game on. 

In the other room, Paul brayed like a mule. Maybe 
he’d switched to a comedy. Maybe the commercial 
was funny. Whatever. It grated on my nerves. 

I thought about breaking his nose again. But it wasn’t 
Paul I wanted to fight with. Not really. 

I tried to listen to other sounds, the wind in the trees. 
It wasn’t the same, not through human ears. There 
were a million voices in the wind that I couldn’t hear 
in this body. But these ears were sensitive enough. I 
could hear past the trees, to the road, the sounds of 
the cars coming around that last bend where you 
could finally see the beach — the vista of the islands 
and the rocks and the big blue ocean stretching to the 
horizon. The La Push cops liked to hang out right 
around there. Tourists never noticed the reduced 
speed limit sign on the other side of the road. 

I could hear the voices outside the souvenir shop on 
the beach. I could hear the cowbell clanging as the 
door opened and closed. I could hear Embry’s mom at 
the cash register, printing out a receipt. 

165 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I could hear the tide raking across the beach rocks. I 
could hear the kids squeal as the icy water rushed in 
too fast for them to get out of the way. I could hear 
the moms complain about the wet clothes. And I 
could hear a familiar voice.... 

I was listening so hard that the sudden burst of 
Paul’s donkey laugh made me jump half off the bed. 

“Get out of my house,” I grumbled. Knowing he 
wouldn’t pay any attention, I followed my own advice. 

I wrenched open my window and climbed out the 
back way so that I wouldn’t see Paul again. It would 
be too tempting. I knew I would hit him again, and 
Rachel was going to be pissed enough already. She’d 
see the blood on his shirt, and she’d blame me right 
away without waiting for proof. Of course, she’d be 
right, but still. I paced down to the shore, my fists in 
my pockets. Nobody looked at me twice when I went 
through the dirt lot by First Beach. That was one nice 
thing about summer — no one cared if you wore 
nothing but shorts. 

I followed the familiar voice I’d heard and found Quil 
easy enough. He was on the south end of the 
crescent, avoiding the bigger part of the tourist crowd. 
He kept up a constant stream of warnings. 

“Keep out of the water, Claire. C’mon. No, don’t. Oh! 
Nice, kid. Seriously, do you want Emily to yell at me? 
I’m not bringing you back to the beach again if you 
don’t — Oh yeah? Don’t — ugh. You think that’s funny, 
do you? Hah! Who’s laughing now, huh?” 

He had the giggling toddler by the ankle when I 
reached them. She had a bucket in one hand, and her 
jeans were drenched. He had a huge wet mark down 
the front of his tshirt. 



166 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Five bucks on the baby girl,” I said. 



“Hey, Jake.” 

Claire squealed and threw her bucket at Quil’s knees. 
“Down, down!” 

He set her carefully on her feet and she ran to me. 

She wrapped her arms around my leg. 

“Unca Jay!” 

“How’s it going, Claire?” 

She giggled. “Qwil aaaaawl wet now.” 

“I can see that. Where’s your mama?” 

“Gone, gone, gone,” Claire sang, “Cwaire pway wid 
Qwil aaaawl day. Cwaire nebber gowin home.” She let 
go of me and ran to Quil. He scooped her up and 
slung her onto his shoulders. 

“Sounds like somebody’s hit the terrible twos.” 

“Threes actually,” Quil corrected. “You missed the 
party. Princess theme. She made me wear a crown, 
and then Emily suggested they all try out her new 
play makeup on me.” 

“Wow, I’m really sorry I wasn’t around to see that.” 

“Don’t worry, Emily has pictures. Actually, I look 
pretty hot.” 

“You’re such a patsy.” 

Quil shrugged. “Claire had a great time. That was the 
point.” 

167 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I rolled my eyes. It was hard being around imprinted 
people. No matter what stage they were in — about to 
tie the knot like Sam or just a much-abused nanny 
like Quil — the peace and certainty they always 
radiated was downright puke-inducing. Claire 
squealed on his shoulders and pointed at the ground. 
“Pity wock, Qwil! For me, for me!” 

“Which one, kiddo? The red one?” 

“No wed!” 

Quil dropped to his knees — Claire screamed and 
pulled his hair like a horse’s reigns. 

“This blue one?” 

“No, no, no...,” the little girl sang, thrilled with her 
new game. The weird part was, Quil was having just 
as much fun as she was. He didn’t have that face on 
that so many of the tourist dads and moms were 
wearing — the when-is-naptime? face. You never saw a 
real parent so jazzed to play whatever stupid kiddie 
sport their rugrat could think up. I’d seen Quil play 
peekaboo for an hour straight without getting bored. 

And I couldn’t even make fun of him for it — I envied 
him too much. Though I did think it sucked that he 
had a good fourteen years of monkitude ahead of him 
until Claire was his age — for Quil, at least, it was a 
good thing werewolves didn’t get older. But even all 
that time didn’t seem to bother him much. 

“Quil, you ever think about dating?” I asked. 

“Huh?” 

“No, no yewwo!” Claire crowed. 



168 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You know. A real girl. I mean, just for now, right? On 
your nights off babysitting duty.” 

Quil stared at me, his mouth hanging open. 

“Pity wock! Pity wock!” Claire screamed when he 
didn’t offer her another choice. She smacked him on 
the head with her little fist. 

“Sorry, Claire-bear. How about this pretty purple 
one?” 

“No,” she giggled. “No poopoh.” 

“Give me a clue. I’m begging, kid.” 

Claire thought it over. “Gween,” she finally said. 

Quil stared at the rocks, studying them. He picked 
four rocks in different shades of green, and offered 
them to her. 

“Did I get it?” 

“Yay!” 

“Which one?” 

“Aaaaawl ob dem!!” 

She cupped her hands and he poured the small rocks 
into them. She laughed and immediately clunked him 
on the head with them. He winced theatrically and 
then got to his feet and started walking back up 
toward the parking lot. Probably worried about her 
getting cold in her wet clothes. He was worse than 
any paranoid, overprotective mother. 



169 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sorry if I was being pushy before, man, about the girl 
thing,” I said. 

“Naw, that’s cool,” Quil said. “It kind of took me by 
surprise is all. I hadn’t thought about it.” 

“I bet she’d understand. You know, when she’s grown 
up. She wouldn’t get mad that you had a life while 
she was in diapers.” 

“No, I know. I’m sure she’d understand that.” 

He didn’t say anything else. 

“But you won’t do that, will you?” I guessed. 

“I can’t see it,” he said in a low voice. “I can’t imagine. 

I just don’t... see anyone that way. I don’t notice girls 
anymore, you know. I don’t see their faces.” 

“Put that together with the tiara and makeup, and 
maybe Claire will have a different kind of competition 
to worry about.” 

Quil laughed and made kissing noises at me. “You 
available this Friday, Jacob?” 

“You wish,” I said, and then I made a face. “Yeah, 
guess I am, though.” 

He hesitated a second and then said, “You ever think 
about dating?” 

I sighed. Guess I’d opened myself up for that one. 

“You know, Jake, maybe you should think about 
getting a life.” 



170 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He didn’t say it like a joke. His voice was sympathetic. 
That made it worse. 



“I don’t see them, either, Quil. I don’t see their faces.” 
Quil sighed, too. 

Far away, too low for anyone but just us two to hear 
it over the waves, a howl rose out of the forest. 

“Dang, that’s Sam,” Quil said. His hands flew up to 
touch Claire, as if making sure she was still there. “I 
don’t know where her mom’s at!” 

“I’ll see what it is. If we need you, I’ll let you know.” I 
raced through the words. They came out all slurred 
together. “Hey, why don’t you take her up to the 
Clearwaters’? Sue and Billy can keep an eye on her if 
they need to. They might know what’s going on, 
anyway.” 

“Okay — get outta here, Jake!” 

I took off running, not for the dirt path through the 
weedy hedge, but in the shortest line toward the 
forest. I hurdled the first line of driftwood and then 
ripped my way through the briars, still running. I felt 
the little tears as the thorns cut into my skin, but I 
ignored them. Their sting would be healed before I 
made the trees. 

I cut behind the store and darted across the highway. 
Somebody honked at me. Once in the safety of the 
trees, I ran faster, taking longer strides. People would 
stare if I was out in the open. Normal people couldn’t 
run like this. Sometimes I thought it might be fun to 
enter a race — you know, like the Olympic trials or 
something. It would be cool to watch the expressions 
on those star athletes’ faces when I blew by them. 

171 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Only I was pretty sure the testing they did to make 
sure you weren’t on steroids would probably turn up 
some really freaky crap in my blood. 

As soon as I was in the true forest, unbound by roads 
or houses, I skidded to a stop and kicked my shorts 
off. With quick, practiced moves, I rolled them up and 
tied them to the leather cord around my ankle. As I 
was still pulling the ends tight, I started shifting. The 
fire trembled down my spine, throwing tight spasms 
out along my arms and legs. It only took a second. 

The heat flooded through me, and I felt the silent 
shimmer that made me something else. I threw my 
heavy paws against the matted earth and stretched 
my back in one long, rolling extension. 

Phasing was very easy when I was centered like this. I 
didn’t have issues with my temper anymore. Except 
when it got in the way. 

For one half second, I remembered the awful moment 
at that unspeakable joke of a wedding. I’d been so 
insane with fury that I couldn’t make my body work 
right. I’d been trapped, shaking and burning, unable 
to make the change and kill the monster just a few 
feet away from me. It had been so confusing. Dying to 
kill him. Afraid to hurt her. My friends in the way. 

And then, when I was finally able to take the form I 
wanted, the order from my leader. The edict from the 
Alpha. If it had been just Embry and Quil there that 
night without Sam... would I have been able to kill 
the murderer, then? 

I hated it when Sam laid down the law like that. I 
hated the feeling of having no choice. Of having to 
obey. 



172 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




And then I was conscious of an audience. I was not 
alone in my thoughts. So self-absorbed all the time, 
Leah thought. 

Yeah, no hypocrisy there, Leah, I thought back. 

Can it, guys, Sam told us. 

We fell silent, and I felt Leah’s wince at the word 
guys. Touchy, like always. Sam pretended not to 
notice. Where’s Quil and Jared? 

Quit’s got Claire. He’s taking her to the Clearwaters’. 

Good. Sue will take her. 

Jared was going to Kim’s, Embry thought. Good 
chance he didn’t hear you. There was a low grumble 
through the pack. I moaned along with them. When 
Jared finally showed up, no doubt he’d still be 
thinking about Kim. And nobody wanted a replay of 
what they were up to right now. 

Sam sat back on his haunches and let another howl 
rip into the air. It was a signal and an order in one. 

The pack was gathered a few miles east of where I 
was. I loped through the thick forest toward them. 
Leah, Embry, and Paul all were working in toward 
them, too. Leah was close — soon I could hear her 
footfalls not far into the woods. We continued in a 
parallel line, choosing not to run together. 

Well, we’re not waiting all day for him. He’ll just have 
to catch up later. 

’Sup, boss? Paul wanted to know. 



We need to talk. Something’s happened. 

173 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt Sam’s thoughts flicker to me — and not just 
Sam’s, but Seth’s and Collin’s and Brady’s as well. 
Collin and Brady — the new kids — had been running 
patrol with Sam today, so they would know whatever 
he knew. I didn’t know why Seth was already out 
here, and in the know. It wasn’t his turn. 

Seth, tell them what you heard. 

I sped up, wanting to be there. I heard Leah move 
faster, too. She hated being outrun. Being the fastest 
was the only edge she claimed. 

Claim this , moron, she hissed, and then she really 
kicked it into gear. I dug my nails into the loam and 
shot myself forward. 

Sam didn’t seem in the mood to put up with our 
usual crap. Jake, Leah, give it a rest Neither of us 
slowed. 

Sam growled, but let it go. Seth? 

Charlie called around till he found Billy at my house. 

Yeah, I talked to him, Paul added. 

I felt a jolt go through me as Seth thought Charlie’s 
name. This was it. The waiting was over. I ran faster, 
forcing myself to breathe, though my lungs felt kinda 
stiff all of a sudden. 

Which story would it be? 

So he’s all flipped out. Guess Edward and Bella got 
home last week, and... 

My chest eased up. 



174 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She was alive. Or she wasn’t dead dead, at least. 



I hadn’t realized how much difference it would make 
to me. I’d been thinking of her as dead this whole 
time, and I only saw that now. I saw that I’d never 
believed that he would bring her back alive. It 
shouldn’t matter, because I knew what was coming 
next. Yeah, bro, and here’s the bad news. Charlie 
talked to her, said she sounded bad. She told him 
she’s sick. Carlisle got on and told Charlie that Bella 
picked up some rare disease in South America. Said 
she’s quarantined. Charlie’s going crazy, ’cause even 
he’s not allowed to see her. He says he doesn’t care if 
he gets sick, but Carlisle wouldn’t bend. No visitors. 
Told Charlie it was pretty serious, but that he’s doing 
everything he can. Charlie’s been stewing about it for 
days, but he only called Billy now. He said she 
sounded worse today. 

The mental silence when Seth finished was profound. 
We all understood. So she would die of this disease, 
as far as Charlie knew. Would they let him view the 
corpse? The pale, perfectly still, unbreathing white 
body? They couldn’t let him touch the cold skin — he 
might notice how hard it was. They’d have to wait 
until she could hold still, could keep from killing 
Charlie and the other mourners. How long would that 
take? 

Would they bury her? Would she dig herself out, or 
would the bloodsuckers come for her? 

The others listened to my speculating in silence. I’d 
put a lot more thought into this than any of them. 

Leah and I entered the clearing at nearly the same 
time. She was sure her nose led the way, though. She 
dropped onto her haunches beside her brother while I 
trotted forward to stand at Sam’s right hand. Paul 

175 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




circled and made room for me in my place. Beatcha 
again, Leah thought, but I barely heard her. 



I wondered why I was the only one on my feet. My fur 
stood up on my shoulders, bristling with impatience. 

Well, what are we waiting for? I asked. 

No one said anything, but I heard their feelings of 
hesitation. Oh, come on! The treaty’s broken! 

We have no proof — maybe she is sick. . . . 

OH, PLEASE! 

Okay, so the circumstantial evidence is pretty strong. 
Still... Jacob. Sam’s thought came slow, hesitant. Are 
you sure this is what you want? Is it really the right 
thing? We all know what she wanted. 

The treaty doesn’t mention anything about victim 
preferences, Sam! 

Is she really a victim? Would you label her that way? 
Yes! 

Jake, Seth thought, they aren’t our enemies. 

Shut up, kid! Just ’cause you’ve got some kind of sick 
hero worship thing going on with that bloodsucker, it 
doesn’t change the law. They are our enemies. They 
are in our territory. We take them out. I don’t care if 
you had fun fighting alongside Edward Cullen once 
upon a time. 

So what are you going to do when Bella fights with 
them, Jacob? Huh? Seth demanded. She’s not Bella 
anymore. 

176 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




You gonna be the one to take her down? 

I couldn’t stop myself from wincing. 

No, you’re not. So, what? You gonna make one of us do 
it? And then hold a grudge against whoever it is 
forever? 

I wouldn’t... 

Sure you won’t. You’re not ready for this fight, Jacob. 

Instinct took over and I crouched forward, snarling at 
the gangly sand-colored wolf across the circle. 

Jacob! Sam cautioned. Seth, shut up for a second. 

Seth nodded his big head. 

Dang, what’d I miss? Quil thought. He was running 
for the gathering place full-out. Heard about Charlie’s 
call. . . . 

We’re getting ready to go, I told him. Why don’t you 
swing by Kim’s and drag Jared out with your teeth? 
We’re going to need everyone. 

Come straight here, Quil, Sam ordered. We’ve decided 
nothing yet. I growled. 

Jacob, I have to think about what’s best for this pack. I 
have to choose the course that protects you all best. 
Times have changed since our ancestors made that 
treaty. I... well, I don’t honestly believe that the 
Cullens are a danger to us. And we know that they will 
not be here much longer. Surely once they’ve told their 
story, they will disappear. Our lives can return to 
normal. 



177 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Normal? 



If we challenge them, Jacob, they will defend 
themselves well. Are you afraid? 

Are you so ready to lose a brother? He paused. Or a 
sister? he tacked on as an afterthought. 

I’m not afraid to die. 

I know that, Jacob. It’s one reason I question your 
judgment on this. I stared into his black eyes. Do you 
intend to honor our fathers’ treaty or not? 

I honor my pack. I do what’s best for them. 

Coward. 

His muzzle tensed, pulling back over his teeth. 

Enough, Jacob. You’re overruled. Sam’s mental voice 
changed, took on that strange double timbre that we 
could not disobey. The voice of the Alpha. He met the 
gaze of every wolf in the circle. 

The pack is not attacking the Cullens without 
provocation. The spirit of the treaty remains. They are 
not a danger to our people, nor are they a danger to the 
people of Forks. Bella Swan made an informed choice, 
and we are not going to punish our former allies for her 
choice. 

Hear, hear, Seth thought enthusiastically. 

I thought I told you to shut it, Seth. 

Oops. Sorry, Sam. 

Jacob, where do you think you’re going? 

178 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I left the circle, moving toward the west so that I 
could turn my back on him. I’m going to tell my father 
goodbye. Apparently there was no purpose in me 
sticking around this long. 

Aw, Jake — don’t do that again! 

Shut up, Seth, several voices thought together. 

We don’t want you to leave, Sam told me, his thought 
softer than before. So force me to stay, Sam. Take 
away my will. Make me a slave. You know I won’t do 
that. 

Then there’s nothing more to say. 

I ran away from them, trying very hard not to think 
about what was next. Instead, I concentrated on my 
memories of the long wolf months, of letting the 
humanity bleed out of me until I was more animal 
than man. Living in the moment, eating when hungry, 
sleeping when tired, drinking when thirsty, and 
running — running just to run. Simple desires, simple 
answers to those desires. Pain came in easily 
managed forms. The pain of hunger. The pain of cold 
ice under your paws. The pain of cutting claws when 
dinner got feisty. Each pain had a simple answer, a 
clear action to end that pain. Not like being human. 

Yet, as soon as I was in jogging distance of my house, 

I shifted back into my human body. I needed to be 
able to think in privacy. 

I untied my shorts and yanked them on, already 
running for the house. I’d done it. I’d hidden what I 
was thinking and now it was too late for Sam to stop 
me. He couldn’t hear me now. 



179 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Sam had made a very clear ruling. The pack would 
not attack the Cullens. Okay. He hadn’t mentioned an 
individual acting alone. 

Nope, the pack wasn’t attacking anyone today. 

But I was. 



180 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





SURE AS HELL DIDN’T SEE THAT ONE COMING 

I didn’t really plan to say goodbye to my father. 

After all, one quick call to Sam and the game would 
be up. They’d cut me off and push me back. Probably 
try to make me angry, or even hurt me — somehow 
force me to phase so that Sam could lay down a new 
law. 

But Billy was expecting me, knowing I’d be in some 
kind of state. He was in the yard, just sitting there in 
his wheelchair with his eyes right on the spot where I 
came through the trees. I saw him judge my 
direction — headed straight past the house to my 
homemade garage. 

“Got a minute, Jake?” 

I skidded to a stop. I looked at him and then toward 
the garage. 

“C’mon kid. At least help me inside.” 

I gritted my teeth but decided that he’d be more likely 
to cause trouble with Sam if I didn’t lie to him for a 
few minutes. 

“Since when do you need help, old man?” 

He laughed his rumbling laugh. “My arms are tired. I 
pushed myself all the way here from Sue’s.” 

“It’s downhill. You coasted the whole way.” 



181 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



I rolled his chair up the little ramp I’d made for him 
and into the living room. 

“Caught me. Think I got up to about thirty miles per 
hour. It was great.” 

“You’re gonna wreck that chair, you know. And then 
you’ll be dragging yourself around by your elbows.” 

“Not a chance. It’ll be your job to carry me.” 

“You won’t be going many places.” 

Billy put his hands on the wheels and steered himself 
to the fridge. “Any food left?” 

“You got me. Paul was here all day, though, so 
probably not.” 

Billy sighed. “Have to start hiding the groceries if 
we’re gonna avoid starvation.” 

“Tell Rachel to go stay at his place.” 

Billy’s joking tone vanished, and his eyes got soft. 
“We’ve only had her home a few weeks. First time 
she’s been here in a long time. It’s hard — the girls 
were older than you when your mom passed. They 
have more trouble being in this house.” 

“I know.” 

Rebecca hadn’t been home once since she got 
married, though she did have a good excuse. Plane 
tickets from Hawaii were pretty pricey. Washington 
State was close enough that Rachel didn’t have the 
same defense. She’d taken classes straight through 
the summer semesters, working double shifts over the 



182 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




holidays at some cafe on campus. If it hadn’t been for 
Paul, she probably would have taken off again real 
quick. Maybe that was why Billy wouldn’t kick him 
out. 

“Well, I’m going to go work on some stuff. ...” I 
started for the back door. 

“Wait up, Jake. Aren’t you going to tell me what 
happened? Do I have to call Sam for an update?” 

I stood with my back to him, hiding my face. 

“Nothing happened. Sam’s giving them a bye. Guess 
we’re all just a bunch of leech lovers now.” 

“Jake ...” 

“I don’t want to talk about it.” 

“Are you leaving, son?” 

The room was quiet for a long time while I decided 
how to say it. 

“Rachel can have her room back. I know she hates 
that air mattress.” 

“She’d rather sleep on the floor than lose you. So 
would I.” 

I snorted. 

“Jacob, please. If you need... a break. Well, take it. 
But not so long again. Come back.” 

“Maybe. Maybe my gig will be weddings. Make a 
cameo at Sam’s, then Rachel’s. Jared and Kim might 



183 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




come first, though. Probably ought to have a suit or 
something.” 

“Jake, look at me.” 

I turned around slowly. “What?” 

He stared into my eyes for a long minute. “Where are 
you going?” 

“I don’t really have a specific place in mind.” 

He cocked his head to the side, and his eyes 
narrowed. “Don’t you?” 

We stared each other down. The seconds ticked by. 

“Jacob,” he said. His voice was strained. “Jacob, 
don’t. It’s not worth it.” 

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” 

“Leave Bella and the Cullens be. Sam is right.” 

I stared at him for a second, and then I crossed the 
room in two long strides. I grabbed the phone and 
disconnected the cable from the box and the jack. I 
wadded the gray cord up in the palm of my hand. 

“Bye, Dad.” 

“Jake, wait — ,” he called after me, but I was out the 
door, running. The motorcycle wasn’t as fast as 
running, but it was more discreet. I wondered how 
long it would take Billy to wheel himself down to the 
store and then get someone on the phone who could 
get a message to Sam. I’d bet Sam was still in his wolf 
form. The problem would be if Paul came back to our 



184 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




place anytime soon. He could phase in a second and 
let Sam know what I was doing. . . . 

I wasn’t going to worry about it. I would go as fast as I 
could, and if they caught me, I’d deal with that when I 
had to. 

I kicked the bike to life and then I was racing down 
the muddy lane. I didn’t look behind me as I passed 
the house. 

The highway was busy with tourist traffic; I wove in 
and out of the cars, earning a bunch of honks and a 
few fingers. I took the turn onto the 101 at seventy, 
not bothering to look. I had to ride the line for a 
minute to avoid getting smeared by a minivan. Not 
that it would have killed me, but it would have slowed 
me down. Broken bones — the big ones, at least — took 
days to heal completely, as I had good cause to know. 
The freeway cleared up a little, and I pushed the bike 
to eighty. I didn’t touch the brake until I was close to 
the narrow drive; I figured I was in the clear then. 

Sam wouldn’t come this far to stop me. It was too 
late. 

It wasn’t until that moment — when I was sure that I’d 
made it — that I started to think about what exactly I 
was going to do now. I slowed down to twenty, taking 
the twists through the trees more carefully than I 
needed to. 

I knew they would hear me coming, bike or no bike, 
so surprise was out. There was no way to disguise my 
intentions. Edward would hear my plan as soon as I 
was close enough. Maybe he already could. But I 



185 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




thought this would still work out, because I had his 
ego on my side. He’d want to fight me alone. 

So I’d just walk in, see Sam’s precious evidence for 
myself, and then challenge Edward to a duel. 

I snorted. The parasite ’d probably get a kick out of the 
theatrics of it. When I finished with him, I’d take as 
many of the rest of them as I could before they got 
me. Huh — I wondered if Sam would consider my 
death provocation. Probably say I got what I deserved. 
Wouldn’t want to offend his bloodsucker BFFs. The 
drive opened up into the meadow, and the smell hit 
me like a rotten tomato to the face. Ugh. Reeking 
vampires. My stomach started churning. The stench 
would be hard to take this way — undiluted by the 
scent of humans as it had been the other time I’d 
come here — though not as bad as smelling it through 
my wolf nose. I wasn’t sure what to expect, but there 
was no sign of life around the big white crypt. Of 
course they knew I was here. 

I cut the engine and listened to the quiet. Now I could 
hear tense, angry murmurs from just the other side of 
the wide double doors. Someone was home. I heard 
my name and I smiled, happy to think I was causing 
them a little stress. 

I took one big gulp of air — it would only be worse 
inside — and leaped up the porch stairs in one bound. 

The door opened before my fist touched it, and the 
doctor stood in the frame, his eyes grave. 

“Hello, Jacob,” he said, calmer than I would have 
expected. “How are you?” 



186 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I took a deep breath through my mouth. The reek 
pouring through the door was overpowering. 

I was disappointed that it was Carlisle who answered. 
I’d rather Edward had come through the door, fangs 
out. Carlisle was so... just human or something. 
Maybe it was the house calls he made last spring 
when I got busted up. But it made me uncomfortable 
to look into his face and know that I was planning to 
kill him if I could. 

“I heard Bella made it back alive,” I said. 

“Er, Jacob, it’s not really the best time.” The doctor 
seemed uncomfortable, too, but not in the way I 
expected. “Could we do this later?” 

I stared at him, dumbfounded. Was he asking to post- 
pone the death match for a more convenient time? 

And then I heard Bella’s voice, cracked and rough, 
and I couldn’t think about anything else. 

“Why not?” she asked someone. “Are we keeping 
secrets from Jacob, too? What’s the point?” 

Her voice was not what I was expecting. I tried to 
remember the voices of the young vampires we’d 
fought in the spring, but all I’d registered was 
snarling. Maybe those newborns hadn’t had the 
piercing, ringing sound of the older ones, either. 
Maybe all new vampires sounded hoarse. 

“Come in, please, Jacob,” Bella croaked more loudly. 

Carlisle’s eyes tightened. 



187 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I wondered if Bella was thirsty. My eyes narrowed, 
too. 

“Excuse me,” I said to the doctor as I stepped around 
him. It was hard — it went against all my instincts to 
turn my back to one of them. Not impossible, though. 
If there was such a thing as a safe vampire, it was the 
strangely gentle leader. I would stay away from 
Carlisle when the fight started. There were enough of 
them to kill without including him. 

I sidestepped into the house, keeping my back to the 
wall. My eyes swept the room — it was unfamiliar. The 
last time I’d been in here it had been all done up for a 
party. Everything was bright and pale now. Including 
the six vampires standing in a group by the white 
sofa. 

They were all here, all together, but that was not what 
froze me where I stood and had my jaw dropping to 
the floor. 

It was Edward. It was the expression on his face. 

I’d seen him angry, and I’d seen him arrogant, and 
once I’d seen him in pain. But this — 

this was beyond agony. His eyes were half-crazed. He 
didn’t look up to glare at me. He stared down at the 
couch beside him with an expression like someone 
had lit him on fire. His hands were rigid claws at his 
side. 

I couldn’t even enjoy his anguish. I could only think 
of one thing that would make him look like that, and 
my eyes followed his. 



188 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I saw her at the same moment that I caught her 
scent. 

Her warm, clean, human scent. 

Bella was half-hidden behind the arm of the sofa, 
curled up in a loose fetal position, her arms wrapped 
around her knees. For a long second I could see 
nothing except that she was still the Bella that I 
loved, her skin still a soft, pale peach, her eyes still 
the same chocolate brown. My heart thudded a 
strange, broken meter, and I wondered if this was just 
some lying dream that I was about to wake up from. 

Then I really saw her. 

There were deep circles under her eyes, dark circles 
that jumped out because her face was all haggard. 
Was she thinner? Her skin seemed tight — like her 
cheekbones might break right through it. Most of her 
dark hair was pulled away from her face into a messy 
knot, but a few strands stuck limply to her forehead 
and neck, to the sheen of sweat that covered her skin. 
There was something about her fingers and wrists 
that looked so fragile it was scary. 

She was sick. Very sick. 

Not a lie. The story Charlie’d told Billy was not a 
story. While I stared, eyes bugging, her skin turned 
light green. 

The blond bloodsucker — the showy one, Rosalie — bent 
over her, cutting into my view, hovering in a strange, 
protective way. 



189 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




This was wrong. I knew how Bella felt about almost 
everything — her thoughts were so obvious; sometimes 
it was like they were printed on her forehead. So she 
didn’t have to tell me every detail of a situation for me 
to get it. I knew that Bella didn’t like Rosalie. I’d seen 
it in the set of her lips when she talked about her. Not 
just that she didn’t like her. She was afraid of Rosalie. 
Or she had been. 

There was no fear as Bella glanced up at her now. Her 
expression was... apologetic or something. Then 
Rosalie snatched a basin from the floor and held it 
under Bella’s chin just in time for Bella to throw up 
noisily into it. 

Edward fell to his knees by Bella’s side — his eyes all 
tortured-looking — and Rosalie held out her hand, 
warning him to keep back. 

None of it made sense. 

When she could raise her head, Bella smiled weakly 
at me, sort of embarrassed. “Sorry about that,” she 
whispered to me. 

Edward moaned real quiet. His head slumped against 
Bella’s knees. She put one of her hands against his 
cheek. Like she was comforting him. 

I didn’t realize my legs had carried me forward until 
Rosalie hissed at me, suddenly appearing between me 
and the couch. She was like a person on a TV screen. 

I didn’t care she was there. She didn’t seem real. 

“Rose, don’t,” Bella whispered. “It’s fine.” 



190 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Blondie moved out of my way, though I could tell she 
hated to do it. Scowling at me, she crouched by 
Bella’s head, tensed to spring. She was easier to 
ignore than I ever would have dreamed. 

“Bella, what’s wrong?” I whispered. Without thinking 
about it, I found myself on my knees, too, leaning 
over the back of the couch across from her... 
husband. He didn’t seem to notice me, and I barely 
glanced at him. I reached out for her free hand, 
taking it in both of mine. Her skin was icy. “Are you 
all right?” 

It was a stupid question. She didn’t answer it. 

“I’m so glad you came to see me today, Jacob,” she 
said. 

Even though I knew Edward couldn’t hear her 
thoughts, he seemed to hear some meaning I didn’t. 
He moaned again, into the blanket that covered her, 
and she stroked his cheek. 

“What is it, Bella?” I insisted, wrapping my hands 
tight around her cold, fragile fingers. Instead of 
answering, she glanced around the room like she was 
searching for something, both a plea and a warning in 
her look. Six pairs of anxious yellow eyes stared back 
at her. Finally, she turned to Rosalie. 

“Help me up, Rose?” she asked. 

Rosalie’s lips pulled back over her teeth, and she 
glared up at me like she wanted to rip my throat out. 

I was sure that was exactly the case. 

“Please, Rose.” 

191 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The blonde made a face, but leaned over her again, 
next to Edward, who didn’t move an inch. She put her 
arm carefully behind Bella’s shoulders. 

“No,” I whispered. “Don’t get up. . . .” She looked so 
weak. 

“I’m answering your question,” she snapped, 
sounding a little bit more like the way she usually 
talked to me. 

Rosalie pulled Bella off the couch. Edward stayed 
where he was, sagging forward till his face was buried 
in the cushions. The blanket fell to the ground at 
Bella’s feet. Bella’s body was swollen, her torso 
ballooning out in a strange, sick way. It strained 
against the faded gray sweatshirt that was way too 
big for her shoulders and arms. The rest of her 
seemed thinner, like the big bulge had grown out of 
what it had sucked from her. It took me a second to 
realize what the deformed part was — I didn’t 
understand until she folded her hands tenderly 
around her bloated stomach, one above and one 
below. Like she was cradling it. 

I saw it then, but I still couldn’t believe it. I’d seen her 
just a month ago. There was no way she could be 
pregnant. Not that pregnant. 

Except that she was. 

I didn’t want to see this, didn’t want to think about 
this. I didn’t want to imagine him inside her. I didn’t 
want to know that something I hated so much had 
taken root in the body I loved. My stomach heaved, 
and I had to swallow back vomit. But it was worse 



192 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




than that, so much worse. Her distorted body, the 
bones jabbing against the skin of her face. I could 
only guess that she looked like this — so pregnant, so 
sick — because whatever was inside her was taking her 
life to feed its own.... 

Because it was a monster. Just like its father. 

I always knew he would kill her. 

His head snapped up as he heard the words inside 
mine. One second we were both on our knees, and 
then he was on his feet, towering over me. His eyes 
were flat black, the circles under them dark purple. 

“Outside, Jacob,” he snarled. 

I was on my feet, too. Looking down on him now. This 
was why I was here. 

“Let’s do this,” I agreed. 

The big one, Emmett, pushed forward on Edward’s 
other side, with the hungry-looking one, Jasper, right 
behind him. I really didn’t care. Maybe my pack 
would clean up the scraps when they finished me off. 
Maybe not. It didn’t matter. 

For the tiniest part of a second my eyes touched on 
the two standing in the back. Esme. Alice. Small and 
distractingly feminine. Well, I was sure the others 
would kill me before I had to do anything about them. 

I didn’t want to kill girls... even vampire girls. Though 
I might make an exception for that blonde. 

“No,” Bella gasped, and she stumbled forward, out of 
balance, to clutch at Edward’s arm. Rosalie moved 



193 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




with her, like there was a chain locking them to each 
other. 



“I just need to talk to him, Bella,” Edward said in a 
low voice, talking only to her. He reached up to touch 
her face, to stroke it. This made the room turn red, 
made me see fire 

— that, after all he’d done to her, he was still allowed 
to touch her that way. “Don’t strain yourself,” he went 
on, pleading. “Please rest. We’ll both be back in just a 
few minutes.” 

She stared at his face, reading it carefully. Then she 
nodded and drooped toward the couch. Rosalie helped 
lower her back onto the cushions. Bella stared at me, 
trying to hold my eyes. 

“Behave,” she insisted. “And then come back.” 

I didn’t answer. I wasn’t making any promises today. I 
looked away and then followed Edward out the front 
door. 

A random, disjointed voice in my head noted that 
separating him from the coven hadn’t been so 
difficult, had it? 

He kept walking, never checking to see if I was about 
to spring at his unprotected back. I supposed he 
didn’t need to check. He would know when I decided 
to attack. Which meant I’d have to make that decision 
very quickly. 

“I’m not ready for you to kill me yet, Jacob Black,” he 
whispered as he paced quickly away from the house. 
“You’ll have to have a little patience.” 

194 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Like I cared about his schedule. I growled under my 
breath. “Patience isn’t my specialty.” 

He kept walking, maybe a couple hundred yards 
down the drive away from the house, with me right on 
his heels. I was all hot, my fingers trembling. On the 
edge, ready and waiting. 

He stopped without warning and pivoted to face me. 
His expression froze me again. For a second I was just 
a kid — a kid who had lived all of his life in the same 
tiny town. Just a child. Because I knew I would have 
to live a lot more, suffer a lot more, to ever 
understand the searing agony in Edward’s eyes. 

He raised a hand as if to wipe sweat from his 
forehead, but his fingers scraped against his face like 
they were going to rip his granite skin right off. His 
black eyes burned in their sockets, out of focus, or 
seeing things that weren’t there. His mouth opened 
like he was going to scream, but nothing came out. 

This was the face a man would have if he were 
burning at the stake. For a moment I couldn’t speak. 

It was too real, this face — I’d seen a shadow of it in 
the house, seen it in her eyes and his, but this made 
it final. The last nail in her coffin. 

“It’s killing her, right? She’s dying.” And I knew when 
I said it that my face was a watered-down echo of his. 
Weaker, different, because I was still in shock. I 
hadn’t wrapped my head around it yet — it was 
happening too fast. He’d had time to get to this point. 
And it was different because I’d already lost her so 
many times, so many ways, in my head. And different 



195 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




because she was never really mine to lose. And 
different because this wasn’t my fault. 



“My fault,” Edward whispered, and his knees gave 
out. He crumpled in front of me, vulnerable, the 
easiest target you could imagine. 

But I felt cold as snow — there was no fire in me. 

“Yes,” he groaned into the dirt, like he was confessing 
to the ground. “Yes, it’s killing her.” 

His broken helplessness irritated me. I wanted a fight, 
not an execution. Where was his smug superiority 
now? 

“So why hasn’t Carlisle done anything?” I growled. 
“He’s a doctor, right? Get it out of her.” 

He looked up then and answered me in a tired voice. 
Like he was explaining this to a kindergartener for the 
tenth time. “She won’t let us.” 

It took a minute for the words to sink in. Jeez, she 
was running true to form. Of course, die for the 
monster spawn. It was so Bella. 

“You know her well,” he whispered. “How quickly you 
see.... I didn’t see. Not in time. She wouldn’t talk to 
me on the way home, not really. I thought she was 
frightened — that would be natural. I thought she was 
angry with me for putting her through this, for 
endangering her life. Again. I never imagined what 
she was really thinking, what she was resolving. Not 
until my family met us at the airport and she ran 
right into Rosalie’s arms. Rosalie’s! And then I heard 
what Rosalie was thinking. I didn’t understand until I 
196 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




heard that. Yet you understand after one second. . . .” 
He half-sighed, half-groaned. 



“Just back up a second. She won’t let you.” The 
sarcasm was acid on my tongue. “Did you ever notice 
that she’s exactly as strong as a normal hundred- 
and-ten-pound human girl? How stupid are you 
vamps? Hold her down and knock her out with 
drugs.” 

“I wanted to,” he whispered. “Carlisle would have. . . 



What, too noble were they? 

“No. Not noble. Her bodyguard complicated things.” 

Oh. His story hadn’t made much sense before, but it 
fit together now. So that’s what Blondie was up to. 
What was in it for her, though? Did the beauty queen 
want Bella to die so bad? 

“Maybe,” he said. “Rosalie doesn’t look at it quite that 
way.” 

“So take the blonde out first. Your kind can be put 
back together, right? Turn her into a jigsaw and take 
care of Bella.” 

“Emmett and Esme are backing her up. Emmett 
would never let us... and Carlisle won’t help me with 
Esme against it. . . .” He trailed off, his voice 
disappearing. 

“You should have left Bella with me.” 

“Yes.” 



197 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It was a bit late for that, though. Maybe he should 
have thought about all this before he knocked her up 
with the life-sucking monster. 

He stared up at me from inside his own personal hell, 
and I could see that he agreed with me. 

“We didn’t know,” he said, the words as quiet as a 
breath. “I never dreamed. There’s never been anything 
like Bella and I before. How could we know that a 
human was able conceive a child with one of us — ” 

“When the human should get ripped to shreds in the 
process?” 

“Yes,” he agreed in a tense whisper. “They’re out 
there, the sadistic ones, the incubus, the succubus. 
They exist. But the seduction is merely a prelude to 
the feast. No one survives.” He shook his head like 
the idea revolted him. Like he was any different. 

“I didn’t realize they had a special name for what you 
are,” I spit. He stared up at me with a face that looked 
a thousand years old. 

“Even you, Jacob Black, cannot hate me as much as I 
hate myself.” 

Wrong, I thought, too enraged to speak. 

“Killing me now doesn’t save her,” he said quietly. 

“So what does?” 

“Jacob, you have to do something for me.” 

“The hell I do, parasite!” 



198 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He kept staring at me with those half-tired, half-crazy 
eyes. “For her?” 

I clenched my teeth together hard. “I did everything I 
could to keep her away from you. Every single thing. 
It’s too late.” 

“You know her, Jacob. You connect to her on a level 
that I don’t even understand. You are part of her, and 
she is part of you. She won’t listen to me, because she 
thinks I’m underestimating her. She thinks she’s 
strong enough for this. ...” He choked and then 
swallowed. “She might listen to you.” 

“Why would she?” 

He lurched to his feet, his eyes burning brighter than 
before, wilder. I wondered if he was really going crazy. 
Could vampires lose their minds? 

“Maybe,” he answered my thought. “I don’t know. It 
feels like it.” He shook his head. “I have to try to hide 
this in front of her, because stress makes her more ill. 
She can’t keep anything down as it is. I have to be 
composed; I can’t make it harder. But that doesn’t 
matter now. She has to listen to you!” 

“I can’t tell her anything you haven’t. What do you 
want me to do? Tell her she’s stupid? She probably 
already knows that. Tell her she’s going to die? I bet 
she knows that, too.” 

“You can offer her what she wants.” 

He wasn’t making any sense. Part of the crazy? 



199 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t care about anything but keeping her alive,” he 
said, suddenly focused now. “If it’s a child she wants, 
she can have it. She can have half a dozen babies. 
Anything she wants.” He paused for one beat. “She 
can have puppies, if that’s what it takes.” 

He met my stare for a moment and his face was 
frenzied under the thin layer of control. My hard 
scowl crumbled as I processed his words, and I felt 
my mouth pop open in shock. 

“But not this way!” he hissed before I could recover. 
“Not this thing that’s sucking the life from her while I 
stand there helpless! Watching her sicken and waste 
away. Seeing it hurting her.” He sucked in a fast 
breath like someone had punched him in the gut. 

“You have to make her see reason, Jacob. She won’t 
listen to me anymore. Rosalie’s always there, feeding 
her insanity — encouraging her. Protecting her. No, 
protecting it. Bella’s life means nothing to her.” 

The noise coming from my throat sounded like I was 
choking. 

What was he saying? That Bella should, what? Have a 
baby? With me? What? How? 

Was he giving her up? Or did he think she wouldn’t 
mind being shared? 

“Whichever. Whatever keeps her alive.” 

“That’s the craziest thing you’ve said yet,” I mumbled. 

“She loves you.” 



200 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Not enough.” 

“She’s ready to die to have a child. Maybe she’d 
accept something less extreme.” 

“Don’t you know her at all?” 

“I know, I know. It’s going to take a lot of convincing. 
That’s why I need you. You know how she thinks. 
Make her see sense.” 

I couldn’t think about what he was suggesting. It was 
too much. Impossible. Wrong. Sick. Borrowing Bella 
for the weekends and then returning her Monday 
morning like a rental movie? So messed up. 

So tempting. 

I didn’t want to consider, didn’t want to imagine, but 
the images came anyway. I’d fantasized about Bella 
that way too many times, back when there was still a 
possibility of us, and then long after it was clear that 
the fantasies would only leave festering sores because 
there was no possibility, none at all. I hadn’t been 
able to help myself then. I couldn’t stop myself now. 
Bella in my arms, Bella sighing my name... 

Worse still, this new image I’d never had before, one 
that by all rights shouldn’t have existed for me. Not 
yet. An image I knew I wouldn’t ’ve suffered over for 
years if he hadn’t shoved it in my head now. But it 
stuck there, winding threads through my brain like a 
weed — poisonous and unkillable. Bella, healthy and 
glowing, so different than now, but something the 
same: her body, not distorted, changed in a more 
natural way. Round with my child. 



201 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I tried to escape the venomous weed in my mind. 
“Make Bella see sense? What universe do you live in?” 

“At least try.” 

I shook my head fast. He waited, ignoring the negative 
answer because he could hear the conflict in my 
thoughts. 

“Where is this psycho crap coming from? Are you 
making this up as you go?” 

“I’ve been thinking of nothing but ways to save her 
since I realized what she was planning to do. What 
she would die to do. But I didn’t know how to contact 
you. I knew you wouldn’t listen if I called. I would 
have come to find you soon, if you hadn’t come today. 
But it’s hard to leave her, even for a few minutes. Her 
condition... it changes so fast. The thing is... growing. 
Swiftly. I can’t be away from her now.” 

“What is it?” 

“None of us have any idea. But it is stronger than she 
is. Already.” 

I could suddenly see it then — see the swelling monster 
in my head, breaking her from the inside out. 

“Help me stop it,” he whispered. “Help me stop this 
from happening.” 

“How? By offering my stud services?” He didn’t even 
flinch when I said that, but I did. 

“You’re really sick. She’ll never listen to this.” 

“Try. There’s nothing to lose now. How will it hurt?” 



202 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It would hurt me. Hadn’t I taken enough rejection 
from Bella without this? 

“A little pain to save her? Is it such a high cost?” 

“But it won’t work.” 

“Maybe not. Maybe it will confuse her, though. Maybe 
she’ll falter in her resolve. One moment of doubt is all 
I need.” 

“And then you pull the rug out from under the offer? 
‘Just kidding, Bella’?” 

“If she wants a child, that’s what she gets. I won’t 
rescind.” 

I couldn’t believe I was even thinking about this. Bella 
would punch me — not that I cared about that, but it 
would probably break her hand again. I shouldn’t let 
him talk to me, mess with my head. I should just kill 
him now. 

“Not now,” he whispered. “Not yet. Right or wrong, it 
would destroy her, and you know it. No need to be 
hasty. If she won’t listen to you, you’ll get your 
chance. The moment Bella’s heart stops beating, I will 
be begging for you to kill me.” 

“You won’t have to beg long.” 

The hint of a worn smile tugged at the corner of his 
mouth. “I’m very much counting on that.” 

“Then we have a deal.” 

He nodded and held out his cold stone hand. 



203 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Swallowing my disgust, I reached out to take his 
hand. My fingers closed around the rock, and I shook 
it once. 

“We have a deal,” he agreed. 



204 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





WHY DIDN’T I JUST WALK AWAY? OH RIGHT, 
BECAUSE I’M AN IDIOT. 

I felt like — like I don’t know what. Like this wasn’t 
real. Like I was in some Goth version of a bad sitcom. 
Instead of being the A/V dweeb about to ask the head 
cheerleader to the prom, I was the finished-second- 
place werewolf about to ask the vampire’s wife to 
shack up and procreate. Nice. 

No, I wouldn’t do it. It was twisted and wrong. I was 
going to forget all about what he’d said. 

But I would talk to her. I’d try to make her listen to 
me. 

And she wouldn’t. Just like always. 

Edward didn’t answer or comment on my thoughts as 
he led the way back to the house. I wondered about 
the place that he’d chosen to stop. Was it far enough 
from the house that the others couldn’t hear his 
whispers? Was that the point? 

Maybe. When we walked through the door, the other 
Cullens’ eyes were suspicious and confused. No one 
looked disgusted or outraged. So they must not have 
heard either favor Edward had asked me for. 

I hesitated in the open doorway, not sure what to do 
now. It was better right there, with a little bit of 
breathable air blowing in from outside. 



205 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



Edward walked into the middle of the huddle, 
shoulders stiff. Bella watched him anxiously, and 
then her eyes flickered to me for a second. Then she 
was watching him again. 

Her face turned a grayish pale, and I could see what 
he meant about the stress making her feel worse. 

“We’re going to let Jacob and Bella speak privately,” 
Edward said. There was no inflection at all in his 
voice. Robotic. 

“Over my pile of ashes,” Rosalie hissed at him. She 
was still hovering by Bella’s head, one of her cold 
hands placed possessively on Bella’s sallow cheek. 
Edward didn’t look at her. “Bella,” he said in that 
same empty tone. “Jacob wants to talk to you. Are 
you afraid to be alone with him?” 

Bella looked at me, confused. Then she looked at 
Rosalie. 

“Rose, it’s fine. Jake’s not going to hurt us. Go with 
Edward.” 

“It might be a trick,” the blonde warned. 

“I don’t see how,” Bella said. 

“Carlisle and I will always be in your sight, Rosalie,” 
Edward said. The emotionless voice was cracking, 
showing the anger through it. “We’re the ones she’s 
afraid of.” 

“No,” Bella whispered. Her eyes were glistening, her 
lashes wet. “No, Edward. I’m not...” 



206 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He shook his head, smiling a little. The smile was 
painful to look at. “I didn’t mean it that way, Bella. 

I’m fine. Don’t worry about me.” 

Sickening. He was right — she was beating herself up 
about hurting his feelings. The girl was a classic 
martyr. She’d totally been born in the wrong century. 
She should have lived back when she could have 
gotten herself fed to some lions for a good cause. 

“Everyone,” Edward said, his hand stiffly motioning 
toward the door. “Please.” 

The composure he was trying to keep up for Bella was 
shaky. I could see how close he was to that burning 
man he’d been outside. The others saw it, too. 

Silently, they moved out the door while I shifted out of 
the way. They moved fast; my heart beat twice, and 
the room was cleared except for Rosalie, hesitating in 
the middle of the floor, and Edward, still waiting by 
the door. 

“Rose,” Bella said quietly. “I want you to go.” 

The blonde glared at Edward and then gestured for 
him to go first. He disappeared out the door. She gave 
me a long warning glower, and then she disappeared, 
too. Once we were alone, I crossed the room and sat 
on the floor next to Bella. I took both her cold hands 
in mine, rubbing them carefully. 

“Thanks, Jake. That feels good.” 

“I’m not going to lie, Bells. You’re hideous.” 

“I know,” she sighed. “I’m scary-looking.” 



207 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thing-from-the-swamp scary,” I agreed. 

She laughed. “It’s so good having you here. It feels 
nice to smile. I don’t know how much more drama I 
can stand.” 

I rolled my eyes. 

“Okay, okay,” she agreed. “I bring it on myself.” 

“Yeah, you do. What ’re you thinking, Bells? 

Seriously!” 

“Did he ask you to yell at me?” 

“Sort of. Though I can’t figure why he thinks you’d 
listen to me. You never have before.” 

She sighed. 

“I told you — ,” I started to say. 

“Did you know that ‘I told you so’ has a brother, 
Jacob?” she asked, cutting me off. “His name is ‘ Shut 
the hell up. ’” 

“Good one.” 

She grinned at me. Her skin stretched tight over the 
bones. “I can’t take credit — I got it off a rerun of The 
Simpsons. ” 

“Missed that one.” 

“It was funny.” 

We didn’t talk for a minute. Her hands were starting 
to warm up a little. 



208 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Did he really ask you to talk to me?” 

I nodded. “To talk some sense into you. There’s a 
battle that’s lost before it starts.” 

“So why did you agree?” 

I didn’t answer. I wasn’t sure I knew. 

I did know this — every second I spent with her was 
only going to add to the pain I would have to suffer 
later. Like a junkie with a limited supply, the day of 
reckoning was coming for me. The more hits I took 
now, the harder it would be when my supply ran out. 

“It’ll work out, you know,” she said after a quiet 
minute. “I believe that.” 

That made me see red again. “Is dementia one of your 
symptoms?” I snapped. She laughed, though my 
anger was so real that my hands were shaking 
around hers. 

“Maybe,” she said. “I’m not saying things will work 
out easily, Jake. But how could I have lived through 
all that I’ve lived through and not believe in magic by 
this point?” 

“Magic?” 

“Especially for you,” she said. She was smiling. She 
pulled one of her hands away from mine and pressed 
it against my cheek. Warmer than before, but it felt 
cool against my skin, like most things did. “More than 
anyone else, you’ve got some magic waiting to make 
things right for you.” 



209 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What are you babbling about?” 



Still smiling. “Edward told me once what it was like — 
your imprinting thing. He said it was like A 
Midsummer Night’s Dream, like magic. You’ll find 
who you’re really looking for, Jacob, and maybe then 
all of this will make sense.” 

If she hadn’t looked so fragile I would’ve been 
screaming. 

As it was, I did growl at her. 

“If you think that imprinting could ever make sense of 
this insanity . . .” I struggled for words. “Do you really 
think that just because I might someday imprint on 
some stranger it would make this right?” I jabbed a 
finger toward her swollen body. “Tell me what the 
point was then, Bella! What was the point of me 
loving you? What was the point of you loving him? 
When you die” — the words were a snarl — “how is that 
ever right again? 

What’s the point to all the pain? Mine, yours, his! 
You’ll kill him, too, not that I care about that.” She 
flinched, but I kept going. “So what was the point of 
your twisted love story, in the end? If there is any 
sense, please show me, Bella, because I don’t see it.” 

She sighed. “I don’t know yet, Jake. But I just... feel... 
that this is all going somewhere good, hard to see as 
it is now. I guess you could call it faith.” 

“You’re dying for nothing, Bella! Nothing!” 

Her hand dropped from my face to her bloated 
stomach, caressed it. She didn’t have to say the 

210 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




words for me to know what she was thinking. She 
was dying for it. 

“I’m not going to die,” she said through her teeth, and 
I could tell she was repeating things she’d said before. 
“I will keep my heart beating. I’m strong enough for 
that.” 

“That’s a load of crap, Bella. You’ve been trying to 
keep up with the supernatural for too long. No normal 
person can do it. You’re not strong enough.” I took 
her face in my hand. I didn’t have to remind myself to 
be gentle. Everything about her screamed breakable. 

“I can do this. I can do this,” she muttered, sounding 
a lot like that kids’ book about the little engine that 
could. 

“Doesn’t look like it to me. So what’s your plan? I 
hope you have one.” 

She nodded, not meeting my eyes. “Did you know 
Esme jumped off a cliff? When she was human, I 
mean.” 

“So?” 

“So she was close enough to dead that they didn’t 
even bother taking her to the emergency room — they 
took her right around to the morgue. Her heart was 
still beating, though, when Carlisle found her. ...” 

That’s what she’d meant before, about keeping her 
heart beating. 

“You’re not planning on surviving this human,” I 
stated dully. 



211 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No. I’m not stupid.” She met my stare then. “I guess 
you probably have your own opinion on that point, 
though.” 

“Emergency vampirization,” I mumbled. 

“It worked for Esme. And Emmett, and Rosalie, and 
even Edward. None of them were in such great shape. 
Carlisle only changed them because it was that or 
death. He doesn’t end lives, he saves them.” 

I felt a sudden twinge of guilt about the good vampire 
doctor, like before. I shoved the thought away and 
started in on the begging. 

“Listen to me, Bells. Don’t do it that way.” Like before, 
when the call from Charlie had come, I could see how 
much difference it really made to me. I realized I 
needed her to stay alive, in some form. In any form. I 
took a deep breath. “Don’t wait until it’s too late, 

Bella. Not that way. Live. Okay? Just live. Don’t do 
this to me. Don’t do it to him.” 

My voice got harder, louder. “You know what he’s 
going to do when you die. You’ve seen it before. You 
want him to go back to those Italian killers?” She 
cringed into the sofa. 

I left out the part about how that wouldn’t be 
necessary this time. Struggling to make my voice 
softer, I asked, “Remember when I got mangled up by 
those newborns? What did you tell me?” 

I waited, but she wouldn’t answer. She pressed her 
lips together. 



212 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You told me to be good and listen to Carlisle,” I 
reminded her. “And what did I do? I listened to the 
vampire. For you.” 

“You listened because it was the right thing to do.” 
“Okay — pick either reason.” 

She took a deep breath. “It’s not the right thing now.” 
Her gaze touched her big round stomach and she 
whispered under her breath, “I won’t kill him.” 

My hands shook again. “Oh, I hadn’t heard the great 
news. A bouncing baby boy, huh? 

Shoulda brought some blue balloons.” 

Her face turned pink. The color was so beautiful — it 
twisted in my stomach like a knife. A serrated knife, 
rusty and ragged. 

I was going to lose this. Again. 

“I don’t know he’s a boy,” she admitted, a little 
sheepish. “The ultrasound wouldn’t work. The 
membrane around the baby is too hard — like their 
skin. So he’s a little mystery. But I always see a boy 
in my head.” 

“It’s not some pretty baby in there, Bella.” 

“Well see,” she said. Almost smug. 

“You won’t,” I snarled. 

“You’re very pessimistic, Jacob. There is definitely a 
chance that I might walk away from this.” 



213 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t answer. I looked down and breathed deep 
and slow, trying to get a grip on my fury. 

“Jake,” she said, and she patted my hair, stroked my 
cheek. “It’s going to be okay. Shh. It’s okay.” 

I didn’t look up. “No. It will not be okay.” 

She wiped something wet from my cheek. “Shh.” 

“What’s the deal, Bella?” I stared at the pale carpet. 
My bare feet were dirty, leaving smudges. Good. “I 
thought the whole point was that you wanted your 
vampire more than anything. And now you’re just 
giving him up? That doesn’t make any sense. Since 
when are you desperate to be a mom? If you wanted 
that so much, why did you marry a vampire?” 

I was dangerously close to that offer he wanted me to 
make. I could see the words taking me that way, but I 
couldn’t change their direction. 

She sighed. “It’s not like that. I didn’t really care 
about having a baby. I didn’t even think about it. It’s 
not just having a baby. It’s... well... this baby.” 

“It’s a killer, Bella. Look at yourself.” 

“He’s not. It’s me. I’m just weak and human. But I 
can tough this out, Jake, I can — ” 

“Aw, come on! Shut up, Bella. You can spout this 
crap to your bloodsucker, but you’re not fooling me. 
You know you’re not going to make it.” 

She glared at me. “I do not know that. I’m worried 
about it, sure.” 



214 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Worried about it,” I repeated through my teeth. 

She gasped then and clutched at her stomach. My 
fury vanished like a light switch being turned off. 

“I’m fine,” she panted. “It’s nothing.” 

But I didn’t hear; her hands had pulled her 
sweatshirt to the side, and I stared, horrified, at the 
skin it exposed. Her stomach looked like it was 
stained with big splotches of purple-black ink. 

She saw my stare, and she yanked the fabric back in 
place. 

“He’s strong, that’s all,” she said defensively. 

The ink spots were bruises. 

I almost gagged, and I understood what he’d said, 
about watching it hurt her. Suddenly, I felt a little 
crazy myself. 

“Bella,” I said. 

She heard the change in my voice. She looked up, still 
breathing heavy, her eyes confused. 

“Bella, don’t do this.” 

“Jake—” 

“Listen to me. Don’t get your back up yet. Okay? Just 
listen. What if... ?” 

“What if what?” 



215 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What if this wasn’t a one-shot deal? What if it wasn’t 
all or nothing? What if you just listened to Carlisle 
like a good girl, and kept yourself alive?” 

“I won’t—” 

“I’m not done yet. So you stay alive. Then you can 
start over. This didn’t work out. Try again.” 

She frowned. She raised one hand and touched the 
place where my eyebrows were mashing together. Her 
fingers smoothed my forehead for a moment while she 
tried to make sense of it. 

“I don’t understand.... What do you mean, try again? 
You can’t think Edward would let me... ? And what 
difference would it make? I’m sure any baby — ” 

“Yes,” I snapped. “Any kid of his would be the same.” 

Her tired face just got more confused. “What?” 

But I couldn’t say any more. There was no point. I 
would never be able to save her from herself. I’d never 
been able to do that. 

Then she blinked, and I could see she got it. 

“Oh. Ugh. Please, Jacob. You think I should kill my 
baby and replace it with some generic substitute? 
Artificial insemination?” She was mad now. “Why 
would I want to have some stranger’s baby? I suppose 
it just doesn’t make a difference? Any baby will do?” 

“I didn’t mean that,” I muttered. “Not a stranger.” 

She leaned forward. “Then what are you saying?” 



216 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nothing. I’m saying nothing. Same as ever.” 

“Where did that come from?” 

“Forget it, Bella.” 

She frowned, suspicious. “Did he tell you to say 
that?” 

I hesitated, surprised that she’d made that leap so 
quick. “No.” 

“He did, didn’t he?” 

“No, really. He didn’t say anything about artificial 
whatever.” 

Her face softened then, and she sank back against 
the pillows, looking exhausted. She stared off to the 
side when she spoke, not talking to me at all. “He 
would do anything for me. And I’m hurting him so 
much.... But what is he thinking? That I would trade 
this” — her hand traced across her belly — “for some 
stranger’s . . .” She mumbled the last part, and then 
her voice trailed off. Her eyes were wet. 

“You don’t have to hurt him,” I whispered. It burned 
like poison in my mouth to beg for him, but I knew 
this angle was probably my best bet for keeping her 
alive. Still a thousand-to-one odds. “You could make 
him happy again, Bella. And I really think he’s losing 
it. Honestly, I do.” 

She didn’t seem to be listening; her hand made small 
circles on her battered stomach while she chewed on 
her lip. It was quiet for a long time. I wondered if the 



217 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Cullens were very far away. Were they listening to my 
pathetic attempts to reason with her? 

“Not a stranger?” she murmured to herself. I flinched. 
“What exactly did Edward say to you?” she asked in a 
low voice. 

“Nothing. He just thought you might listen to me.” 

“Not that. About trying again.” 

Her eyes locked on mine, and I could see that I’d 
already given too much away. 

“Nothing.” 

Her mouth fell open a little. “Wow.” 

It was silent for a few heartbeats. I looked down at my 
feet again, unable to meet her stare. 

“He really would do anything, wouldn’t he?” she 
whispered. 

“I told you he was going crazy. Literally, Bells.” 

“I’m surprised you didn’t tell on him right away. Get 
him in trouble.” 

When I looked up, she was grinning. 

“Thought about it.” I tried to grin back, but I could 
feel the smile mangle on my face. She knew what I 
was offering, and she wasn’t going to think twice 
about it. I’d known that she wouldn’t. But it still 
stung. 



218 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“There isn’t much you wouldn’t do for me, either, is 
there?” she whispered. “I really don’t know why you 
bother. I don’t deserve either of you.” 

“It makes no difference, though, does it?” 

“Not this time.” She sighed. “I wish I could explain it 
to you right so that you would understand. I can’t 
hurt him” — she pointed to her stomach — “any more 
than I could pick up a gun and shoot you. I love him.” 

“Why do you always have to love the wrong things, 
Bella?” 

“I don’t think I do.” 

I cleared the lump out of my throat so that I could 
make my voice hard like I wanted it. 

“Trust me.” 

I started to get to my feet. 

“Where are you going?” 

“I’m not doing any good here.” 

She held out her thin hand, pleading. “Don’t go.” 

I could feel the addiction sucking at me, trying to 
keep me near her. 

“I don’t belong here. I’ve got to get back.” 

“Why did you come today?” she asked, still reaching 
limply. 

“Just to see if you were really alive. I didn’t believe 
you were sick like Charlie said.” 



219 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t tell from her face whether she bought that 
or not. 

“Will you come back again? Before . . 

“I’m not going to hang around and watch you die, 
Bella.” 

She flinched. “You’re right, you’re right. You should 
go.” 

I headed for the door. 

“Bye,” she whispered behind me. “Love you, Jake.” 

I almost went back. I almost turned around and fell 
down on my knees and started begging again. But I 
knew that I had to quit Bella, quit her cold turkey, 
before she killed me, like she was going to kill him. 

“Sure, sure,” I mumbled on my way out. 

I didn’t see any of the vampires. I ignored my bike, 
standing all alone in the middle of the meadow. It 
wasn’t fast enough for me now. My dad would be 
freaked out — Sam, too. What would the pack make of 
the fact that they hadn’t heard me phase? Would they 
think the Cullens got me before I’d had the chance? I 
stripped down, not caring who might be watching, 
and started running. I blurred into wolf mid-stride. 
They were waiting. Of course they were. 

Jacob, Jake, eight voices chorused in relief. 

Come home now , the Alpha voice ordered. Sam was 
furious. I felt Paul fade out, and I knew Billy and 
Rachel were waiting to hear what had happened to 



220 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




me. Paul was too anxious to give them the good news 
that I wasn’t vampire chow to listen to the whole 
story. 

I didn’t have to tell the pack I was on my way — they 
could see the forest blurring past me as I sprinted for 
home. I didn’t have to tell them that I was half-past 
crazy, either. The sickness in my head was obvious. 

They saw all the horror — Bella’s mottled stomach; her 
raspy voice: he’s strong, that’s all; the burning man in 
Edward’s face: watching her sicken and waste away... 
seeing it hurting her; Rosalie crouched over Bella’s 
limp body: Bella’s life means nothing to her 

— and for once, no one had anything to say. 

Their shock was just a silent shout in my head. 
Wordless. 



I was halfway home before anyone recovered. Then 
they all started running to meet me. It was almost 
dark — the clouds covered the sunset completely. I 
risked darting across the freeway and made it without 
being seen. 

We met up about ten miles out of La Push, in a 
clearing left by the loggers. It was out of the way, 
wedged between two spurs of the mountain, where no 
one would see us. Paul found them when I did, so the 
pack was complete. 

The babble in my head was total chaos. Everyone 
shouting at once. Sam’s hackles were sticking 
straight up, and he was growling in an unbroken 

221 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




stream as he paced back and forth around the top of 
the ring. Paul and Jared moved like shadows behind 
him, their ears flat against the sides of their head. 

The whole circle was agitated, on their feet and 
snarling in low bursts. 

At first their anger was undefined, and I thought I 
was in for it. I was too messed up to care about that. 
They could do whatever they wanted to me for 
circumventing orders. And then the unfocused 
confusion of thoughts began to move together. How 
can this be? What does it mean? What will it be? 

Not safe. Not right. Dangerous. 

Unnatural. Monstrous. An abomination. 

We can’t allow it. 

The pack was pacing in synchronization now, 
thinking in synchronization, all but myself and one 
other. I sat beside whichever brother it was, too dazed 
to look over with either my eyes or my mind and see 
who was next to me, while the pack circled around 
us. 



The treaty does not cover this. 

This puts everyone in danger. 

I tried to understand the spiraling voices, tried to 
follow the curling pathway the thoughts made to see 
where they were leading, but it wasn’t making sense. 
The pictures in the center of their thoughts were my 
pictures — the very worst of them. Bella’s bruises, 
Edward’s face as he burned. 



222 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




They fear it, too. 

But they won’t do anything about it. 

Protecting Bella Swan. 

We can’t let that influence us. 

The safety of our families, of everyone here, is more 
important than one human. If they won’t kill it, we 
have to. 

Protect the tribe. 

Protect our families. 

We have to kill it before it’s too late. 

Another of my memories, Edward’s words this time: 
The thing is growing. Swiftly. I struggled to focus, to 
pick out individual voices. 

No time to waste, Jared thought. 

It will mean a fight, Embry cautioned. A bad one. 
We’re ready, Paul insisted. 

We’ll need surprise on our side, Sam thought. 

If we catch them divided, we can take them down 
separately. It will increase our chances of victory, 
Jared thought, starting to strategize now. I shook my 
head, rising slowly to my feet. I felt unsteady there — 
like the circling wolves were making me dizzy. The 
wolf beside me got up, too. His shoulder pushed 
against mine, propping me up. 

Wait, I thought. 



223 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The circling paused for one beat, and then they were 
pacing again. There’s little time, Sam said. 

But — what are you thinking? You wouldn’t attack 
them for breaking the treaty this afternoon. Now 
you’re planning an ambush, when the treaty is still 
intact? 

This is not something our treaty anticipated, Sam 
said. This is a danger to every human in the area. We 
don’t know what kind of creature the Cullens have 
bred, but we know that it is strong and fast-growing. 
And it will be too young to follow any treaty. 
Remember the newborn vampires we fought? Wild, 
violent, beyond the reach of reason or restraint. 
Imagine one like that, but protected by the Cullens. 
We don’t know — I tried to interrupt. 

We don’t know, he agreed. And we can’t take chances 
with the unknown in this case. We can only allow the 
Cullens to exist while we’re absolutely sure that they 
can be trusted not to cause harm. This... thing 
cannot be trusted. 

They don’t like it any more than we do. 

Sam pulled Rosalie’s face, her protective crouch, from 
my mind and put it on display for everyone. 

Some are ready to fight for it, no matter what it is. 

It’s just a baby , for crying out loud. 

Not for long, Leah whispered. 

Jake, buddy, this is a big problem, Quil said. We can’t 
just ignore it. You’re making it into something bigger 



224 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




than it is, I argued. The only one who’s in danger here 
is Bella. 

Again by her own choice, Sam said. But this time her 
choice affects us all. I don’t think so. 

We can’t take that chance. We won’t allow a blood 
drinker to hunt on our lands. Then tell them to leave, 
the wolf who was still supporting me said. It was 
Seth. Of course. 

And inflict the menace on others? When blood 
drinkers cross our land, we destroy them, no matter 
where they plan to hunt. We protect everyone we can. 
This is crazy, I said. This afternoon you were afraid to 
put the pack in danger. This afternoon I didn’t know 
our families were at risk. 

I can’t believe this! How’re you going to kill this 
creature without killing Bella? 

There were no words, but the silence was full of 
meaning. 

I howled. She’s human, too! Doesn’t our protection 
apply to her? 

She’s dying anyway, Leah thought. We’ll just shorten 
the process. That did it. I leaped away from Seth, 
toward his sister, with my teeth bared. I was about to 
catch her left hind leg when I felt Sam’s teeth cut into 
my flank, dragging me back. I howled in pain and fury 
and turned on him. 

Stop! he ordered in the double timbre of the Alpha. 



225 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




My legs seemed to buckle under me. I jerked to a halt, 
only managing to keep on my feet by sheer willpower. 

He turned his gaze away from me. You will not be 
cruel to him, Leah, he commanded her. Bella’s 
sacrifice is a heavy price, and we will all recognize 
that. It is against everything we stand for to take a 
human life. Making an exception to that code is a 
bleak thing. We will all mourn for what we do tonight. 
Tonight? Seth repeated, shocked. Sam — I think we 
should talk about this some more. Consult with the 
Elders, at least. You can’t seriously mean for us to — 

We can’t afford your tolerance for the Cullens now. 
There is no time for debate. You will do as you are 
told, Seth. 

Seth’s front knees folded, and his head fell forward 
under the weight of the Alpha’s command. 

Sam paced in a tight circle around the two of us. 

We need the whole pack for this. Jacob, you are our 
strongest fighter. You will fight with us tonight. I 
understand that this is hard for you, so you will 
concentrate on their fighters — Emmett and Jasper 
Cullen. You don’t have to be involved with the... other 
part. Quil and Embry will fight with you. 

My knees trembled; I struggled to hold myself upright 
while the voice of the Alpha lashed at my will. 

Paul, Jared, and I will take on Edward and Rosalie. I 
think, from the information Jacob has brought us, 
they will be the ones guarding Bella. Carlisle and 
Alice will also be close, possibly Esme. Brady, Collin, 



226 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Seth, and Leah will concentrate on them. Whoever 
has a clear line on — we all heard him mentally 
stutter over Bella’s name — the creature will take it. 
Destroying the creature is our first priority. The pack 
rumbled in nervous agreement. The tension had 
everyone’s fur standing on end. The pacing was 
quicker, and the sound of the paws against the 
brackish floor was sharper, toenails tearing into the 
soil. 

Only Seth and I were still, the eye in the center of a 
storm of bared teeth and flattened ears. Seth’s nose 
was almost touching the ground, bowed under Sam’s 
commands. I felt his pain at the coming disloyalty. 

For him this was a betrayal — during that one day of 
alliance, fighting beside Edward Cullen, Seth had 
truly become the vampire’s friend. There was no 
resistance in him, however. He would obey no matter 
how much it hurt him. He had no other choice. 

And what choice did I have? When the Alpha spoke, 
the pack followed. Sam had never pushed his 
authority this far before; I knew he honestly hated to 
see Seth kneeling before him like a slave at the foot of 
his master. He wouldn’t force this if he didn’t believe 
that he had no other choice. He couldn’t lie to us 
when we were linked mind to mind like this. He really 
believed it was our duty to destroy Bella and the 
monster she carried. He really believed we had no 
time to waste. He believed it enough to die for it. 

I saw that he would face Edward himself; Edward’s 
ability to read our thoughts made him the greatest 
threat in Sam’s mind. Sam would not let someone 
else take on that danger. 

227 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He saw Jasper as the second-greatest opponent, 
which is why he’d given him to me. He knew that I 
had the best chance of any of the pack to win that 
fight. He’d left the easiest targets for the younger 
wolves and Leah. Little Alice was no danger without 
her future vision to guide her, and we knew from our 
time of alliance that Esme was not a fighter. Carlisle 
would be more of a challenge, but his hatred of 
violence would hinder him. I felt sicker than Seth as I 
watched Sam plan it out, trying to work the angles to 
give each member of the pack the best chance of 
survival. 

Everything was inside out. This afternoon, I’d been 
chomping at the bit to attack them. But Seth had 
been right — it wasn’t a fight I’d been ready for. I’d 
blinded myself with that hate. I hadn’t let myself look 
at it carefully, because I must have known what I 
would see if I did. 

Carlisle Cullen. Looking at him without that hate 
clouding my eyes, I couldn’t deny that killing him was 
murder. He was good. Good as any human we 
protected. Maybe better. The others, too, I supposed, 
but I didn’t feel as strongly about them. I didn’t know 
them as well. It was Carlisle who would hate fighting 
back, even to save his own life. That’s why we would 
be able to kill him — because he wouldn’t want us, his 
enemies, to die. This was wrong. 

And it wasn’t just because killing Bella felt like killing 
me, like suicide. Pull it together, Jacob, Sam ordered. 
The tribe comes first. I was wrong today, Sam. 



228 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Your reasons were wrong then. But now we have a 
duty to fulfill. I braced myself. No. 

Sam snarled and stopped pacing in front of me. He 
stared into my eyes and a deep growl slid between his 
teeth. 

Yes, the Alpha decreed, his double voice blistering 
with the heat of his authority. There are no loopholes 
tonight. You, Jacob, are going to fight the Cullens 
with us. You, with Quil and Embry, will take care of 
Jasper and Emmett. You are obligated to protect the 
tribe. That is why you exist. You will perform this 
obligation. My shoulders hunched as the edict 
crushed me. My legs collapsed, and I was on my belly 
under him. 

No member of the pack could refuse the Alpha. 



229 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





THE TWO THINGS AT THE VERY TOP OF MY 
THINGS-I-NEVER- WANT-TO-DO LIST 

Sam started moving the others into formation while I 
was still on the ground. Embry and Quil were at my 
sides, waiting for me to recover and take the point. I 
could feel the drive, the need, to get on my feet and 
lead them. The compulsion grew, and I fought it 
uselessly, cringing on the ground where I was. 

Embry whined quietly in my ear. He didn’t want to 
think the words, afraid that he would bring me to 
Sam’s attention again. I felt his wordless plea for me 
to get up, for me to get this over with and be done 
with it. 

There was fear in the pack, not so much for self but 
for the whole. We couldn’t imagine that we would all 
make it out alive tonight. Which brothers would we 
lose? Which minds would leave us forever? Which 
grieving families would we be consoling in the 
morning? 

My mind began to work with theirs, to think in 
unison, as we dealt with these fears. Automatically, I 
pushed up from the ground and shook out my coat. 
Embry and Quil huffed in relief. Quil touched his 
nose to my side once. Their minds were filled with our 
challenge, our assignment. We remembered together 
the nights we’d watched the Cullens practicing for the 
fight with the newborns. Emmett Cullen was 
strongest, but Jasper would be the bigger problem. 



230 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



He moved like a lightning strike — power and speed 
and death rolled into one. How many centuries’ 

experience did he have? Enough that all the other 
Cullens looked to him for guidance. I’ll take point, if 
you want flank, Quil offered. There was more 
excitement in his mind than most of the others. When 
Quil had watched Jasper’s instruction those nights, 
he’d been dying to test his skill against the vampire’s. 
For him, this would be a contest. Even knowing it was 
his life on the line, he saw it that way. Paul was like 
that, too, and the kids who had never been in battle, 
Collin and Brady. Seth probably would’ve been the 
same — if the opponents were not his friends. 

Jake? Quil nudged me. How do you want to roll? 

I just shook my head. I couldn’t concentrate — the 
compulsion to follow orders felt like puppet strings 
hooked into all of my muscles. One foot forward, now 
another. Seth was dragging behind Collin and 
Brady — Leah had assumed point there. She ignored 
Seth while planning with the others, and I could see 
that she’d rather leave him out of the fight. There was 
a maternal edge to her feelings for her younger 
brother. She wished Sam would send him home. Seth 
didn’t register Leah’s doubts. He was adjusting to the 
puppet strings, too. 

Maybe if you stopped resisting..., Embry whispered. 

Just focus on our part. The big ones. We can take 
them down. We own them! Quil was working himself 
up — like a pep talk before a big game. 



231 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I could see how easy it would be — to think about 
nothing more than my part. It wasn’t hard to imaging 
attacking Jasper and Emmett. We’d been close to that 
before. I’d thought of them as enemies for a very long 
time. I could do that now again. I just had to forget 
that they were protecting the same thing I would 
protect. I had to forget the reason why I might want 
them to win.... 

Jake, Embry warned. Keep your head in the game. My 
feet moved sluggishly, pulling against the drag of the 
strings. There’s no point fighting it, Embry whispered 
again. 

He was right. I would end up doing what Sam wanted, 
if he was willing to push it. And he was. Obviously. 

There was a good reason for the Alpha’s authority. 
Even a pack as strong as ours wasn’t much of a force 
without a leader. We had to move together, to think 
together, in order to be effective. And that required 
the body to have a head. 

So what if Sam was wrong now? There was nothing 
anyone could do. No one could dispute his decision. 

Except. 

And there it was — a thought I’d never, never wanted 
to have. But now, with my legs all tied up in strings, I 
recognized the exception with relief — more than relief, 
with a fierce joy. 

No one could dispute the Alpha’s decision — except for 
me. I hadn’t earned anything. But there were things 



232 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




that had been born in me, things that I’d left 
unclaimed. 



I’d never wanted to lead the pack. I didn’t want to do 
it now. I didn’t want the responsibility for all our fates 
resting on my shoulders. Sam was better at that than 
I would ever be. 

But he was wrong tonight. 

And I had not been born to kneel to him. 

The bonds fell off my body the second that I embraced 
my birthright. I could feel it gathering in me, both a 
freedom and also a strange, hollow power. Hollow 
because an Alpha’s power came from his pack, and I 
had no pack. For a second, loneliness overwhelmed 
me. 

I had no pack now. 

But I was straight and strong as I walked to where 
Sam stood, planning with Paul and Jared. He turned 
at the sound of my advance, and his black eyes 
narrowed. No, I told him again. 

He heard it right away, heard the choice that I’d made 
in the sound of the Alpha voice in my thoughts. 

He jumped back a half step with a shocked yelp. 

Jacob? What have you done? 

I won’t follow you, Sam. Not for something so wrong. 

He stared at me, stunned. You would... you would 
choose your enemies over your family? 



233 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




They aren’t — I shook my head, clearing it — they 
aren’t our enemies. They never have been. Until I 
really thought about destroying them, thought it 
through, I didn’t see that. This isn’t about them, he 
snarled at me. This is about Bella. She has never 
been the one for you, she has never chosen you, but 
you continue to destroy your life for her! 

They were hard words, but true words. I sucked in a 
big gulp of air, breathing them in. Maybe you’re right. 
But you’re going to destroy the pack over her, Sam. 
No matter how many of them survive tonight, they 
will always have murder on their hands. We have to 
protect our families! 

I know what you’ve decided, Sam. But you don’t 
decide for me, not anymore. Jacob — you can’t turn 
your back on the tribe. 

I heard the double echo of his Alpha command, but it 
was weightless this time. It no longer applied to me. 
He clenched his jaw, trying to force me to respond to 
his words. I stared into his furious eyes. Ephraim 
Black’s son was not born to follow Levi Uley’s. Is this 
it, then, Jacob Black ? His hackles rose and his 
muzzle pulled back from his teeth. Paul and Jared 
snarled and bristled at his sides. Even if you can 
defeat me, the pack will never follow you! 

Now I jerked back, a surprised whine escaping my 
throat. Defeat you? I’m not going to fight you, Sam. 

Then what’s your plan? I’m not stepping aside so that 
you can protect the vampire spawn at the tribe’s 
expense. 



234 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’m not telling you to step aside. 

If you order them to follow you — 

I’ll never take anyone’s will away from him. 

His tail whipped back and forth as he recoiled from 
the judgment in my words. Then he took a step 
forward so that we were toe to toe, his exposed teeth 
inches from mine. I hadn’t noticed till this moment 
that I’d grown taller than him. There cannot be more 
than one Alpha. The pack has chosen me. Will you rip 
us apart tonight? Will you turn on your brothers? Or 
will you end this insanity and join us again? Every 
word was layered with command, but it couldn’t 
touch me. Alpha blood ran undiluted in my veins. 

I could see why there was never more than one Alpha 
male in a pack. My body was responding to the 
challenge. I could feel the instinct to defend my claim 
rising in me. The primitive core of my wolf-self tensed 
for the battle of supremacy. I focused all my energy to 
control that reaction. I would not fall into a pointless, 
destructive fight with Sam. He was my brother still, 
even though I was rejecting him. There is only one 
Alpha for this pack. I’m not contesting that. I’m just 
choosing to go my own way. 

Do you belong to a coven now, Jacob? 

I flinched. 

I don’t know, Sam. But I do know this — 

He shrunk back as he felt the weight of the Alpha in 
my tone. It affected him more than his touched me. 
Because I had been born to lead him. 

235 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I will stand between you and the Cullens. I won’t just 
watch while the pack kills innocent — it was hard to 
apply that word to vampires, but it was true — people. 
The pack is better than that. Lead them in the right 
direction, Sam. I turned my back on him, and a 
chorus of howls tore into the air around me. Digging 
my nails into the earth, I raced away from the uproar 
I’d caused. I didn’t have much time. At least Leah was 
the only one with a prayer of outrunning me, and I 
had a head start. 

The howling faded with the distance, and I took 
comfort as the sound continued to rip apart the quiet 
night. They weren’t after me yet. 

I had to warn the Cullens before the pack could get it 
together and stop me. If the Cullens were prepared, it 
might give Sam a reason to rethink this before it was 
too late. I sprinted toward the white house I still 
hated, leaving my home behind me. Home didn’t 
belong to me anymore. I’d turned my back on it. 

Today had begun like any other day. Made it home 
from patrol with the rainy sunrise, breakfast with 
Billy and Rachel, bad TV, bickering with Paul... How 
did it change so completely, turn all surreal? How did 
everything get messed up and twisted so that I was 
here now, all alone, an unwilling Alpha, cut off from 
my brothers, choosing vampires over them? 

The sound I’d been fearing interrupted my dazed 
thoughts — it was the soft impact of big paws against 
the ground, chasing after me. I threw myself forward, 
rocketing through the black forest. I just had to get 



236 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




close enough so that Edward could hear the warning 
in my head. Leah wouldn’t be able to stop me alone. 

And then I caught the mood of the thoughts behind 
me. Not anger, but enthusiasm. Not chasing... but 
following. 

My stride broke. I staggered two steps before it evened 
out again. Wait up. My legs aren’t as long as yours. 

SETH! What do you think you’re DOING? GO HOME! 

He didn’t answer, but I could feel his excitement as he 
kept right on after me. I could see through his eyes as 
he could see through mine. The night scene was bleak 
for me — 

full of despair. For him, it was hopeful. 

I hadn’t realized I was slowing down, but suddenly he 
was on my flank, running in position beside me. 

I am not joking, Seth! This is no place for you. Get out 
of here. The gangly tan wolf snorted. I’ve got your 
back, Jacob. I think you’re right. And I’m not going to 
stand behind Sam when — 

Oh yes you are the hell going to stand behind Sam! 
Get your furry butt back to La Push and do what Sam 
tells you to do. 

No. 

Go, Seth! 

Is that an order , Jacob? 



237 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




His question brought me up short. I skidded to a halt, 
my nails gouging furrows in the mud. 



I’m not ordering anyone to do anything. I’m just 
telling you what you already know. He plopped down 
on his haunches beside me. I’ll tell you what I know — 
I know that it’s awful quiet. Haven’t you noticed? 

I blinked. My tail swished nervously as I realized what 
he was thinking underneath the words. It wasn’t 
quiet in one sense. Howls still filled the air, far away 
in the west. They haven’t phased back, Seth said. 

I knew that. The pack would be on red alert now. 

They would be using the mind link to see all sides 
clearly. But I couldn’t hear what they were thinking. I 
could only hear Seth. No one else. 

Looks to me like separate packs aren’t linked. Huh. 
Guess there was no reason for our fathers to know 
that before. ’Cause there was no reason for separate 
packs before. Never enough wolves for two. Wow. It’s 
really quiet. Sort of eerie. But also kinda nice, don’t 
you think? I bet it was easier, like this, for Ephraim 
and Quil and Levi. Not such a babble with just three. 
Or just two. 

Shut up, Seth. 

Yes, sir. 

Stop that! There are not two packs. There is THE 
pack, and then there is me. That’s all. So you can go 
home now. 

If there aren’t two packs, then why can we hear each 
other and not the rest? I think that when you turned 

238 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




your back on Sam, that was a pretty significant move. 
A change. And when I followed you away, I think that 
was significant, too. You’ve got a point, I conceded. 
But what can change can change right back. He got 
up and started trotting toward the east. No time to 
argue about it now. We should be moving right along 
before Sam... 

He was right about that part. There was no time for 
this argument. I fell into a run again, not pushing 
myself quite as hard. Seth stayed on my heels, 
holding the Second’s traditional place on my right 
flank. 

I can run somewhere else, he thought, his nose 
dipping a little. I didn’t follow you because I was after 
a promotion. 

Run wherever you want. Makes no difference to me. 

There was no sound of pursuit, but we both stepped 
it up a little at the same time. I was worried now. If I 
couldn’t tap into the pack’s mind, it was going to 
make this more difficult. I’d have no more advance 
warning of attack than the Cullens. We’ll run patrols, 
Seth suggested. 

And what do we do if the pack challenges us? My eyes 
tightened. Attack our brothers? 

Your sister? 

No — we sound the alarm and fall back. 

Good answer. But then what? I don’t think... 



239 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I know, he agreed. Less confident now. I don’t think I 
can fight them, either. But they won’t be any happier 
with the idea of attacking us than we are with 
attacking them. That might be enough to stop them 
right there. Plus, there’re only eight of them now. Stop 
being so... Took me a minute to decide on the right 
word. Optimistic. It’s getting on my nerves. 

No problem. You want me to be all doom and gloom, 
or just shut up? 

Just shut up. 

Can do. 

Really? Doesn’t seem like it. 

He was finally quiet. 

And then we were across the road and moving 
through the forest that ringed the Cullens’ house. 
Could Edward hear us yet? 

Maybe we should be thinking something like, “We 
come in peace.” 

Go for it. 

Edward? He called the name tentatively. Edward, you 
there? Okay, now I feel kinda stupid. 

You sound stupid, too. 

Think he can hear us? 

We were less than a mile out now. I think so. Hey, 
Edward. If you can hear me — circle the wagons, 
bloodsucker. You’ve got a problem. 



240 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




We’ve got a problem, Seth corrected. 

Then we broke through the trees into the big lawn. 
The house was dark, but not empty. Edward stood on 
the porch between Emmett and Jasper. They were 
snow white in the pale light. 

“Jacob? Seth? What’s going on?” 

I slowed and then paced back a few steps. The smell 
was so sharp through this nose that it felt like it was 
honestly burning me. Seth whined quietly, hesitating, 
and then he fell back behind me. 

To answer Edward’s question, I let my mind run over 
the confrontation with Sam, moving through it 
backward. Seth thought with me, filling in the gaps, 
showing the scene from another angle. We stopped 
when we got to the part about the “abomination,” 

because Edward hissed furiously and leaped off the 
porch. 

“They want to kill Bella?” he snarled flatly. 

Emmett and Jasper, not having heard the first part of 
the conversation, took his inflectionless question for a 
statement. They were right next to him in a flash, 
teeth exposed as they moved on us. 

Hey, now, Seth thought, backing away. 

“Em, Jazz — not them! The others. The pack is 
coming.” 



241 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett and Jasper rocked back on their heels; 
Emmett turned to Edward while Jasper kept his eyes 
locked on us. 

“What’s their problem?” Emmett demanded. 

“The same one as mine,” Edward hissed. “But they 
have their own plan to handle it. Get the others. Call 
Carlisle! He and Esme have to get back here now.” 

I whined uneasily. They were separated. 

“They aren’t far,” Edward said in the same dead voice 
as before. I’m going to go take a look, Seth said. Run 
the western perimeter. 

“Will you be in danger, Seth?” Edward asked. 

Seth and I exchanged a glance. 

Don’t think so, we thought together. And then I 
added, But maybe I should go. Just in case... 

They’ll be less likely to challenge me, Seth pointed 
out. I’m just a kid to them. You’re just a kid to me, 
kid. 

I’m outta here. You need to coordinate with the 
Cullens. 

He wheeled and darted into the darkness. I wasn’t 
going to order Seth around, so I let him go. 

Edward and I stood facing each other in the dark 
meadow. I could hear Emmett muttering into his 
phone. Jasper was watching the place where Seth 
had vanished into the woods. Alice appeared on the 
porch and then, after staring at me with anxious eyes 



242 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




for a long moment, she flitted to Jasper’s side. I 
guessed that Rosalie was inside with Bella. Still 
guarding her — from the wrong dangers. 

“This isn’t the first time I’ve owed you my gratitude, 
Jacob,” Edward whispered. “I would never have asked 
for this from you.” 

I thought of what he’d asked me for earlier today. 
When it came to Bella, there were no lines he 
wouldn’t cross. Yeah, you would. 

He thought about it and then nodded. “I suppose 
you’re right about that.” 

I sighed heavily. Well, this isn’t the first time that I 
didn’t do it for you. 

“Right,” he murmured. 

Sorry I didn’t do any good today. Told you she 
wouldn’t listen to me. 

“I know. I never really believed she would. But ...” 

You had to try. I get it. She any better? 

His voice and eyes went hollow. “Worse,” he breathed. 

I didn’t want to let that word sink in. I was grateful 
when Alice spoke. 

“Jacob, would you mind switching forms?” Alice 
asked. “I want to know what’s going on.” 

I shook my head at the same time Edward answered. 

“He needs to stay linked to Seth.” 



243 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, then would you be so kind as to tell me what’s 
happening?” 

He explained in clipped, emotionless sentences. “The 
pack thinks Bella’s become a problem. They foresee 
potential danger from the... from what she’s carrying. 
They feel it’s their duty to remove that danger. Jacob 
and Seth disbanded from the pack to warn us. The 
rest are planning to attack tonight.” 

Alice hissed, leaning away from me. Emmett and 
Jasper exchanged a glance, and then their eyes 
ranged across the trees. 

Nobody out here, Seth reported. All’s quiet on the 
western front. They may go around. 

I’ll make a loop. 

“Carlisle and Esme are on their way,” Emmett said. 
“Twenty minutes, tops.” 

“We should take up a defensive position,” Jasper said. 

Edward nodded. “Let’s get inside.” 

I’ll run perimeter with Seth. If I get too far for you to 
hear my head, listen for my howl. 

“I will.” 

They backed into the house, eyes flickering 
everywhere. Before they were inside, I turned and ran 
toward the west. 

I’m still not finding much, Seth told me. 



244 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’ll take half the circle. Move fast — we don’t want them 
to have a chance to sneak past us. 

Seth lurched forward in a sudden burst of speed. 

We ran in silence, and the minutes passed. I listened 
to the noises around him, doublechecking his 
judgment. Hey — something coming up fast! he warned 
me after fifteen minutes of silence. On my way! 

Hold your position — I don’t think it’s the pack. It 
sounds different. Seth — 

But he caught the approaching scent on the breeze, 
and I read it in his mind. Vampire. Bet it’s Carlisle. 

Seth, fall back. It might be someone else. 

No, it’s them. I recognize the scent. Hold up, I’m going 
to phase to explain it to them. Seth, I don’t think — 

But he was gone. 

Anxiously, I raced along the western border. Wouldn’t 
it be just peachy if I couldn’t take care of Seth for one 
freaking night? What if something happened to him 
on my watch? 

Leah would shred me into kibble. 

At least the kid kept it short. It wasn’t two minutes 
later when I felt him in my head again. 

Yep, Carlisle and Esme. Boy, were they surprised to 
see me! They’re probably inside by now. Carlisle said 
thanks. 

He’s a good guy. 



245 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Yeah. That’s one of the reasons why we’re right about 
this. Hope so. 

Why ’re you so down, Jake? I’ll bet Sam won’t bring 
the pack tonight. He’s not going to launch a suicide 
mission. 

I sighed. It didn’t seem to matter, either way. 

Oh. This isn’t about Sam so much, is it? 

I made the turn at the end of my patrol. I caught 
Seth’s scent where he’d turned last. We weren’t 
leaving any gaps. 

You think Bella’s going to die anyway, Seth 
whispered. Yeah, she is. 

Poor Edward. He must be crazy. 

Literally. 

Edward’s name brought other memories boiling to the 
surface. Seth read them in astonishment. 

And then he was howling. Oh, man! No way! You did 
not ! That just plain ol’ sucks rocks, Jacob! And you 
know it, too! I can’t believe you said you’d kill him. 
What is that? 

You have to tell him no. 

Shut up, shut up, you idiot! They’re going to think the 
pack is coming! 

Oops! He cut off mid-howl. 



246 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I wheeled and started loping in toward the house. 

Just keep out of this, Seth. Take the whole circle for 
now. 

Seth seethed and I ignored him. 

False alarm, false alarm, I thought as I ran closer in. 
Sorry. Seth is young. He forgets things. No one’s 
attacking. False alarm. 

When I got to the meadow, I could see Edward staring 
out of a dark window. I ran in, wanting to be sure he 
got the message. 

There’s nothing out there — you got that? 

He nodded once. 

This would be a lot easier if the communication 
wasn’t one way. Then again, I was kinda glad I wasn’t 
in his head. 

He looked over his shoulder, back into the house, and 
I saw a shudder run through his whole frame. He 
waved me away without looking in my direction again 
and then moved out of my view. 

What’s going on? 

Like I was going to get an answer. 

I sat very still in the meadow and listened. With these 
ears, I could almost hear Seth’s soft footfalls, miles 
out into the forest. It was easy to hear every sound 
inside the dark house. 

“It was a false alarm,” Edward was explaining in that 
dead voice, just repeating what I’d told him. “Seth was 



247 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




upset about something else, and he forgot we were 
listening for a signal. He’s very young.” 

“Nice to have toddlers guarding the fort,” a deeper 
voice grumbled. Emmett, I thought. 

“They’ve done us a great service tonight, Emmett,” 
Carlisle said. “At great personal sacrifice.” 

“Yeah, I know. I’m just jealous. Wish I was out there.” 

“Seth doesn’t think Sam will attack now,” Edward 
said mechanically. “Not with us forewarned, and 
lacking two members of the pack.” 

“What does Jacob think?” Carlisle asked. 

“He’s not as optimistic.” 

No one spoke. There was a quiet dripping sound that I 
couldn’t place. I heard their low breathing — and I 
could separate Bella’s from the rest. It was harsher, 
labored. It hitched and broke in strange rhythms. I 
could hear her heart. It seemed... too fast. I paced it 
against my own heartbeat, but I wasn’t sure if that 
was any measure. It wasn’t like I was normal. 

“Don’t touch her! You’ll wake her up,” Rosalie 
whispered. 

Someone sighed. 

“Rosalie,” Carlisle murmured. 

“Don’t start with me, Carlisle. We let you have your 
way earlier, but that’s all we’re allowing.” 



248 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It seemed like Rosalie and Bella were both talking in 
plurals now. Like they’d formed a pack of their own. 

I paced quietly in front of the house. Each pass 
brought me a little closer. The dark windows were like 
a TV set running in some dull waiting room — it was 
impossible to keep my eyes off them for long. 

A few more minutes, a few more passes, and my fur 
was brushing the side of the porch as I paced. 

I could see up through the windows — see the top of 
the walls and the ceiling, the unlit chandelier that 
hung there. I was tall enough that all I would have to 
do was stretch my neck a little... and maybe one paw 
up on the edge of the porch.... 

I peeked into the big, open front room, expecting to 
see something very similar to the scene this 
afternoon. But it had changed so much that I was 
confused at first. For a second I thought I’d gotten the 
wrong room. 

The glass wall was gone — it looked like metal now. 

And the furniture was all dragged out of the way, with 
Bella curled up awkwardly on a narrow bed in the 
center of the open space. Not a normal bed — one with 
rails like in a hospital. Also like a hospital were the 
monitors strapped to her body, the tubes stuck into 
her skin. The lights on the monitors flashed, but 
there was no sound. The dripping noise was from the 
IV plugged into her arm — some fluid that was thick 
and white, not clear. 

She choked a little in her uneasy sleep, and both 
Edward and Rosalie moved in to hover over her. Her 



249 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




body jerked, and she whimpered. Rosalie smoothed 
her hand across Bella’s forehead. Edward’s body 
stiffened — his back was to me, but his expression 
must have been something to see, because Emmett 
wrenched himself between them before there was time 
to blink. He held his hands up to Edward. 

“Not tonight, Edward. We’ve got other things to worry 
about.” 

Edward turned away from them, and he was the 
burning man again. His eyes met mine for one 
moment, and then I dropped back to all fours. 

I ran back into the dark forest, running to join Seth, 
running away from what was behind me. 

Worse. Yes, she was worse. 



250 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





SOME PEOPLE JUST DON’T GRASP THE CONCEPT 
OF “UNWELCOME” 

I was right on the edge of sleep. 

The sun had risen behind the clouds an hour ago — 
the forest was gray now instead of black. Seth’d 
curled up and passed out around one, and I’d woken 
him at dawn to trade off. Even after running all night, 

I was having a hard time making my brain shut up 
long enough to fall asleep, but Seth’s rhythmic run 
was helping. One, two-three, four, one, two-three, 
four — dum dum-dum dum — dull paw thuds against 
the damp earth, over and over as he made the wide 
circuit surrounding the Cullens’ land. We were 
already wearing a trail into the ground. Seth’s 
thoughts were empty, just a blur of green and gray as 
the woods flew past him. It was restful. It helped to fill 
my head with what he saw rather than letting my own 
images take center stage. 

And then Seth’s piercing howl broke the early 
morning quiet. 

I lurched up from the ground, my front legs pulling 
toward a sprint before my hind legs were off the 
ground. I raced toward the place where Seth had 
frozen, listening with him to the tread of paws 
running in our direction. 

Morning, boys. 



251 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



A shocked whine broke through Seth’s teeth. And 
then we both snarled as we read deeper into the new 
thoughts. 

Oh, man! Go away , Leah! Seth groaned. 

I stopped when I got to Seth, head thrown back, ready 
to howl again — this time to complain. 

Cut the noise, Seth. 

Right. Ugh! Ugh! Ugh! He whimpered and pawed at 
the ground, scratching deep furrows in the dirt. 

Leah trotted into view, her small gray body weaving 
through the underbrush. Stop whining, Seth. You’re 
such a baby. 

I growled at her, my ears flattening against my skull. 
She skipped back a step automatically. 

What do you think you’re doing, Leah? 

She huffed a heavy sigh. It’s pretty obvious, isn’t it? 
I’m joining your crappy little renegade pack. The 
vampires’ guard dogs. She barked out a low, sarcastic 
laugh. No, you’re not. Turn around before I rip out 
one of your hamstrings. Like you could catch me. She 
grinned and coiled her body for launch. Wanna race, 

0 

fearless leader? 

1 took a deep breath, filling my lungs until my sides 
bulged. Then, when I was sure I wasn’t going to 
scream, I exhaled in a gust. 



252 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Seth, go let the Cullens know that it’s just your 
stupid sister — I thought the words as harshly as 
possible. I’ll deal with this. 

On it! Seth was only too happy to leave. He vanished 
toward the house. Leah whined, and she leaned after 
him, the fur on her shoulders rising. You’re just going 
to let him run off to the vampires alone? 

I’m pretty sure he’d rather they took him out than 
spend another minute with you. Shut up, Jacob. 
Oops, I’m sorry — I meant, shut up, most high Alpha. 
Why the hell are you here? 

You think I’m just going to sit home while my little 
brother volunteers as a vampire chew toy? 

Seth doesn’t want or need your protection. In fact, no 
one wants you here. Oooh, ouch, that’s gonna leave a 
huge mark. Ha, she barked. Tell me who does want 
me around, and I’m outta here. 

So this isn’t about Seth at all, is it? 

Of course it is. I’m just pointing out that being 
unwanted is not a first for me. Not really a motivating 
factor, if you know what I mean. 

I gritted my teeth and tried to get my head straight. 

Did Sam send you? 

If I was here on Sam’s errand, you wouldn’t be able to 
hear me. My allegiance is no longer with him. 

I listened carefully to the thoughts mixed in with the 
words. If this was a diversion or a ploy, I had to be 



253 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




alert enough to see through it. But there was nothing. 
Her declaration was nothing but the truth. Unwilling, 
almost despairing truth. 

You’re loyal to me now? I asked with deep sarcasm. 
Uh-huh. Right. My choices are limited. I’m working 
with the options I’ve got. Trust me, I’m not enjoying 
this any more than you are. 

That wasn’t true. There was an edgy kind of 
excitement in her mind. She was unhappy about this, 
but she was also riding some weird high. I searched 
her mind, trying to understand. 

She bristled, resenting the intrusion. I usually tried to 
tune Leah out — I’d never tried to make sense of her 
before. 

We were interrupted by Seth, thinking his explanation 
at Edward. Leah whined anxiously. Edward’s face, 
framed in the same window as last night, showed no 
reaction to the news. It was a blank face, dead. 

Wow, he looks bad, Seth muttered to himself. The 
vampire showed no reaction to that thought, either. 

He disappeared into the house. Seth pivoted and 
headed back out to us. Leah relaxed a little. 

What’s going on? Leah asked. Catch me up to speed. 
There’s no point. You’re not staying. 

Actually, Mr. Alpha, I am. Because since apparently I 
have to belong to someone — and don’t think I haven’t 
tried breaking off on my own, you know yourself how 
well that doesn’t work — I choose you. 



Leah, you don’t like me. I don’t like you. 

254 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Thank you, Captain Obvious. That doesn’t matter to 
me. I’m staying with Seth. You don’t like vampires. 
Don’t you think that’s a little conflict of interest right 
there? 

You don’t like vampires either. 

But I am committed to this alliance. You aren’t. 

I’ll keep my distance from them. I can run patrols out 
here, just like Seth. And I’m supposed to trust you 
with that? 

She stretched her neck, leaning up on her toes, trying 
to be as tall as me as she stared into my eyes. I will 
not betray my pack. 

I wanted to throw my head back and howl, like Seth 
had before. This isn’t your pack! 

This isn’t even a pack. This is just me, going off on my 
own! What is it with you Clearwaters? Why can’t you 
leave me alone? 

Seth, just coming up behind us now, whined; I’d 
offended him. Great. I’ve been helpful, haven’t I, 

Jake? 

You haven’t made too much a nuisance of yourself, 
kid, but if you and Leah are a package deal — if the 
only way to get rid of her is for you to go home.... 

Well, can you blame me for wanting you gone? 

Ugh, Leah, you ruin everything! 

Yeah, I know, she told him, and the thought was 
loaded with the heaviness of her despair. 



255 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt the pain in the three little words, and it was 
more than I would’ve guessed. I didn’t want to feel 
that. I didn’t want to feel bad for her. Sure, the pack 
was rough on her, but she brought it all on herself 
with the bitterness that tainted her every thought and 
made being in her head a nightmare. 

Seth was feeling guilty, too. Jake... You’re not really 
gonna send me away, are you? 

Leah’s not so bad. Really. I mean, with her here, we 
can push the perimeter out farther. And this puts 
Sam down to seven. There’s no way he’s going to 
mount an attack that outnumbered. It’s probably a 
good thing. . . . 

You know I don’t want to lead a pack, Seth. 

So don’t lead us, Leah offered. 

I snorted. Sounds perfect to me. Run along home 
now. 

Jake, Seth thought. I belong here. I do like vampires. 
Cullens, anyway. They’re people to me, and I’m going 
to protect them, ’cause that’s what we’re supposed to 
do. Maybe you belong, kid, but your sister doesn’t. 
And she’s going to go wherever you are 



I stopped short, because I saw something when I said 
that. Something Leah had been trying not to think. 

Leah wasn’t going anywhere. 

Thought this was about Seth, I thought sourly. 



256 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She flinched. Of course I’m here for Seth. 



And to get away from Sam. 

Her jaw clenched. I don’t have to explain myself to 
you. I just have to do what I’m told. I belong to your 
pack, Jacob. The end. 

I paced away from her, growling. 

Crap. I was never going to get rid of her. As much as 
she disliked me, as much as she loathed the Cullens, 
as happy as she’d be to go kill all the vampires right 
now, as much as it pissed her off to have to protect 
them instead — none of that was anything compared to 
what she felt being free of Sam. 

Leah didn’t like me, so it wasn’t such a chore having 
me wish she would disappear. She loved Sam. Still. 
And having him wish she would disappear was more 
pain than she was willing to live with, now that she 
had a choice. She would have taken any other option. 
Even if it meant moving in with the Cullens as their 
lapdog. I don’t know if I’d go that far, she thought. 

She tried to make the words tough, aggressive, but 
there were big cracks in her show. I’m sure I’d give 
killing myself a few good tries first. 

Look, Leah... 

No, you look, Jacob. Stop arguing with me, because 
it’s not going to do any good. I’ll stay out of your way, 
okay? I’ll do anything you want. Except go back to 
Sam’s pack and be the pathetic ex-girlfriend he can’t 
get away from. If you want me to leave — she sat back 



257 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




on her haunches and stared straight into my eyes — 
you’re going to have to make me. 

I snarled for a long, angry minute. I was beginning to 
feel some sympathy for Sam, despite what he had 
done to me, to Seth. No wonder he was always 
ordering the pack around. How else would you ever 
get anything done? 

Seth, are you gonna get mad at me if I kill your 
sister? 

He pretended to think about it for a minute. Well... 
yeah, probably. I sighed. 

Okay, then, Ms. Do-Anything-I-Want. Why don’t you 
make yourself useful by telling us what you know? 
What happened after we left last night? 

Lots of howling. But you probably heard that part. It 
was so loud that it took us a while to figure out that 
we couldn’t hear either of you anymore. Sam was... 
Words failed her, but we could see it in our head. 

Both Seth and I cringed. After that, it was clear pretty 
quick that we were going to have to rethink things. 
Sam was planning to talk to the other Elders first 
thing this morning. We were supposed to meet up and 
figure out a game plan. I could tell he wasn’t going to 
mount another attack right away, though. Suicide at 
this point, with you and Seth AWOL and the 
bloodsuckers forewarned. I’m not sure what they’ll do, 
but I wouldn’t be wandering the forest alone if I was a 
leech. It’s open season on vamps now. 

You decided to skip the meeting this morning? I 
asked. When we split up for patrols last night, I asked 



258 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




permission to go home, to tell my mother what had 
happened — 

Crap! You told Mom? Seth growled. 

Seth, hold off on the sibling stuff for a sec. Go on, 
Leah. So once I was human, I took a minute to think 
things through. Well, actually, I took all night. I bet 
the others think I fell asleep. But the whole two- 
separate-packs, two- separate-pack-minds thing gave 
me a lot to sift through. In the end, I weighed Seth’s 
safety and the, er, other benefits against the idea of 
turning traitor and sniffing vampire stink for who 
knows how long. You know what I decided. I left a 
note for my mom. I expect we’ll hear it when Sam 
finds out.... 

Leah cocked an ear to the west. 

Yeah, I expect we will, I agreed. 

So that’s everything. What do we do now? she asked. 

She and Seth both looked at me expectantly. 

This was exactly the kind of thing I didn’t want to 
have to do. I guess we just keep an eye out for now. 
That’s all we can do. You should probably take a nap, 
Leah. 

You’ve had as much sleep as I have. 

Thought you were going to do what you were told? 

Right. That’s going to get old, she grumbled, and then 
she yawned. Well, whatever. I don’t care. 



259 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’ll run the border, Jake. I’m not tired at all. Seth was 
so glad I hadn’t forced them home, he was all but 
prancing with excitement. 

Sure, sure. I’m going to go check in with the Cullens. 

Seth took off along the new path worn into the damp 
earth. Leah looked after him thoughtfully. 

Maybe a round or two before I crash.... Hey Seth, 
wanna see how many times I can lap you? 

NO! 

Barking out a low chuckle, Leah lunged into the 
woods after him. I growled uselessly. So much for 
peace and quiet. 

Leah was trying — for Leah. She kept her jibes to a 
minimum as she raced around the circuit, but it was 
impossible not to be aware of her smug mood. I 
thought of the whole 

“two’s company” saying. It didn’t really apply, because 
one was plenty to my mind. But if there had to be 
three of us, it was hard to think of anyone that I 
wouldn’t trade her for. Paul? she suggested. 

Maybe, I allowed. 

She laughed to herself, too jittery and hyper to get 
offended. I wondered how long the buzz from dodging 
Sam’s pity would last. 

That will be my goal, then — to be less annoying than 
Paul. 



Yeah, work on that. 

260 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I changed into my other form when I was a few yards 
from the lawn. I hadn’t been planning to spend much 
time human here. But I hadn’t been planning to have 
Leah in my head, either. I pulled on my ragged shorts 
and started across the lawn. The door opened before I 
got to the steps, and I was surprised to see Carlisle 
rather than Edward step outside to meet me — his face 
looked exhausted and defeated. For a second, my 
heart froze. I faltered to a stop, unable to speak. 

“Are you all right, Jacob?” Carlisle asked. 

“Is Bella?” I choked out. 

“She’s... much the same as last night. Did I startle 
you? I’m sorry. Edward said you were coming in your 
human form, and I came out to greet you, as he didn’t 
want to leave her. She’s awake.” 

And Edward didn’t want to lose any time with her, 
because he didn’t have much time left. Carlisle didn’t 
say the words out loud, but he might as well have. It 
had been a while since I’d slept — since before my last 
patrol. I could really feel that now. I took a step 
forward, sat down on the porch steps, and slumped 
against the railing. Moving whisper-quiet as only a 
vampire could, Carlisle took a seat on the same step, 
against the other railing. 

“I didn’t get a chance to thank you last night, Jacob. 
You don’t know how much I appreciate your... 
compassion. I know your goal was to protect Bella, 
but I owe you the safety of the rest of my family as 
well. Edward told me what you had to do. . . .” 

“Don’t mention it,” I muttered. 



261 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“If you prefer.” 

We sat in silence. I could hear the others in the 
house. Emmett, Alice, and Jasper, speaking in low, 
serious voices upstairs. Esme humming tunelessly in 
another room. Rosalie and Edward breathing close 
by — I couldn’t tell which was which, but I could hear 
the difference in Bella’s labored panting. I could hear 
her heart, too. It seemed... 

uneven. 

It was like fate was out to make me do everything I’d 
ever sworn I wouldn’t in the course of twenty-four 
hours. Here I was, hanging around, waiting for her to 
die. I didn’t want to listen anymore. Talking was 
better than listening. 

“She’s family to you?” I asked Carlisle. It had caught 
my notice before, when he’d said I’d helped the rest of 
his family, too. 

“Yes. Bella is already a daughter to me. A beloved 
daughter.” 

“But you’re going to let her die.” 

He was quiet long enough that I looked up. His face 
was very, very tired. I knew how he felt. 

“I can imagine what you think of me for that,” he 
finally said. “But I can’t ignore her will. It wouldn’t be 
right to make such a choice for her, to force her.” 

I wanted to be angry with him, but he was making it 
hard. It was like he was throwing my own words back 
at me, just scrambled up. They’d sounded right 



262 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




before, but they couldn’t be right now. Not with Bella 
dying. Still... I remembered how it felt to be broken on 
the ground under Sam — to have no choice but be 
involved in the murder of someone I loved. It wasn’t 
the same, though. Sam was wrong. And Bella loved 
things she shouldn’t. 

“Do you think there’s any chance she’ll make it? I 
mean, as a vampire and all that. She told me about... 
about Esme.” 

“I’d say there’s an even chance at this point,” he 
answered quietly. “I’ve seen vampire venom work 
miracles, but there are conditions that even venom 
cannot overcome. Her heart is working too hard now; 
if it should fail... there won’t be anything for me to 
do.” 

Bella’s heartbeat throbbed and faltered, giving an 
agonizing emphasis to his words. Maybe the planet 
had started turning backward. Maybe that would 
explain how everything was the opposite of what it 
had been yesterday — how I could be hoping for what 
had once seemed like the very worst thing in the 
world. 

“What is that thing doing to her?” I whispered. “She 
was so much worse last night. I saw... the tubes and 
all that. Through the window.” 

“The fetus isn’t compatible with her body. Too strong, 
for one thing, but she could probably endure that for 
a while. The bigger problem is that it won’t allow her 
to get the sustenance she needs. Her body is rejecting 
every form of nutrition. I’m trying to feed her 
intravenously, but she’s just not absorbing it. 

263 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Everything about her condition is accelerated. I’m 
watching her — and not just her, but the fetus as 
well — starve to death by the hour. I can’t stop it and I 
can’t slow it down. I can’t figure out what it wants.” 
His weary voice broke at the end. 

I felt the same way I had yesterday, when I’d seen the 
black stains across her stomach — 

furious, and a little crazy. 

I clenched my hands into fists to control the shaking. 

I hated the thing that was hurting her. It wasn’t 
enough for the monster to beat her from the inside 
out. No, it was starving her, too. Probably just looking 
for something to sink its teeth into — a throat to suck 
dry. Since it wasn’t big enough to kill anyone else yet, 
it settled for sucking Bella’s life from her. 

I could tell them exactly what it wanted: death and 
blood, blood and death. My skin was all hot and 
prickly. I breathed slowly in and out, focusing on that 
to calm myself. 

“I wish I could get a better idea of what exactly it is,” 
Carlisle murmured. “The fetus is well protected. I 
haven’t been able to produce an ultrasonic image. I 
doubt there is any way to get a needle through the 
amniotic sac, but Rosalie won’t agree to let me try, in 
any case.” 

“A needle?” I mumbled. “What good would that do?” 

“The more I know about the fetus, the better I can 
estimate what it will be capable of. What I wouldn’t 



264 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




give for even a little amniotic fluid. If I knew even the 
chromosomal count ...” 

“You’re losing me, Doc. Can you dumb it down?” 

He chuckled once — even his laugh sounded 
exhausted. “Okay. How much biology have you 
taken? Did you study chromosomal pairs?” 

“Think so. We have twenty-three, right?” 

“Humans do.” 

I blinked. “How many do you have?” 

“Twenty-five.” 

I frowned at my fists for a second. “What does that 
mean?” 

“I thought it meant that our species were almost 
completely different. Less related than a lion and a 
house cat. But this new life — well, it suggests that 
we’re more genetically compatible than I’d thought.” 
He sighed sadly. “I didn’t know to warn them.” 

I sighed, too. It had been easy to hate Edward for the 
same ignorance. I still hated him for it. It was just 
hard to feel the same way about Carlisle. Maybe 
because I wasn’t ten shades of jealous in Carlisle’s 
case. 

“It might help to know what the count was — whether 
the fetus was closer to us or to her. To know what to 
expect.” Then he shrugged. “And maybe it wouldn’t 
help anything. I guess I just wish I had something to 
study, anything to do.” 



265 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Wonder what my chromosomes are like,” I muttered 
randomly. I thought of those Olympic steroids tests 
again. Did they run DNA scans? 

Carlisle coughed self-consciously. “You have twenty- 
four pairs, Jacob.” 

I turned slowly to stare at him, raising my eyebrows. 

He looked embarrassed. “I was... curious. I took the 
liberty when I was treating you last June.” 

I thought about it for a second. “I guess that should 
piss me off. But I don’t really care.” 

“I’m sorry. I should have asked.” 

“S’okay, Doc. You didn’t mean any harm.” 

“No, I promise you that I did not mean you any harm. 
It’s just that... I find your species fascinating. I 
suppose that the elements of vampiric nature have 
come to seem commonplace to me over the centuries. 
Your family’s divergence from humanity is much more 
interesting. Magical, almost.” 

“Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo,” I mumbled. He was just like 
Bella with all the magic garbage. Carlisle laughed 
another weary laugh. 

Then we heard Edward’s voice inside the house, and 
we both paused to listen. 

“I’ll be right back, Bella. I want to speak with Carlisle 
for a moment. Actually, Rosalie, would you mind 
accompanying me?” Edward sounded different. There 
was a little life in his dead voice. A spark of 



266 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




something. Not hope exactly, but maybe the desire to 
hope. 



“What is it, Edward?” Bella asked hoarsely. 

“Nothing you need to worry about, love. It will just 
take a second. Please, Rose?” 

“Esme?” Rosalie called. “Can you mind Bella for me?” 

I heard the whisper of wind as Esme flitted down the 
stairs. 

“Of course,” she said. 

Carlisle shifted, twisting to look expectantly at the 
door. Edward was through the door first, with Rosalie 
right on his heels. His face was, like his voice, no 
longer dead. He seemed intensely focused. Rosalie 
looked suspicious. 

Edward shut the door behind her. 

“Carlisle,” he murmured. 

“What is it, Edward?” 

“Perhaps we’ve been going about this the wrong way. I 
was listening to you and Jacob just now, and when 
you were speaking of what the... fetus wants, Jacob 
had an interesting thought.” 

Me? What had I thought? Besides my obvious hatred 
for the thing? At least I wasn’t alone in that. I could 
tell that Edward had a difficult time using a term as 
mild as fetus. 



267 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“We haven’t actually addressed that angle,” Edward 
went on. “We’ve been trying to get Bella what she 
needs. And her body is accepting it about as well as 
one of ours would. Perhaps we should address the 
needs of the... fetus first. Maybe if we can satisfy it, 
we’ll be able to help her more effectively.” 

“I’m not following you, Edward,” Carlisle said. 

“Think about it, Carlisle. If that creature is more 
vampire than human, can’t you guess what it 
craves — what it’s not getting? Jacob did.” 

I did? I ran through the conversation, trying to 
remember what thoughts I’d kept to myself. I 
remembered at the same time that Carlisle 
understood. 

“Oh,” he said in a surprised tone. “You think it is... 
thirsty?” 

Rosalie hissed under her breath. She wasn’t 
suspicious anymore. Her revoltingly perfect face was 
all lit up, her eyes wide with excitement. “Of course,” 
she muttered. “Carlisle, we have all that type O 
negative laid aside for Bella. It’s a good idea,” she 
added, not looking at me. 

“Hmm.” Carlisle put his hand to his chin, lost in 
thought. “I wonder... And then, what would be the 
best way to administer. ...” 

Rosalie shook her head. “We don’t have time to be 
creative. I’d say we should start with the traditional 
way.” 



268 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Wait a minute,” I whispered. “Just hold on. Are 
you — are you talking about making Bella drink 
blood?” 

“It was your idea, dog,” Rosalie said, scowling at me 
without ever quite looking at me. I ignored her and 
watched Carlisle. That same ghost of hope that had 
been in Edward’s face was now in the doctor’s eyes. 
He pursed his lips, speculating. 

“That’s just ...” I couldn’t find the right word. 

“Monstrous?” Edward suggested. “Repulsive?” 

“Pretty much.” 

“But what if it helps her?” he whispered. 

I shook my head angrily. “What are you gonna do, 
shove a tube down her throat?” 

“I plan to ask her what she thinks. I just wanted to 
run it past Carlisle first.” 

Rosalie nodded. “If you tell her it might help the baby, 
she’ll be willing to do anything. Even if we do have to 
feed them through a tube.” 

I realized then — when I heard how her voice got all 
loveydovey as she said the word baby — that Blondie 
would be in line with anything that helped the little 
life-sucking monster. Was that what was going on, 
the mystery factor that was bonding the two of them? 
Was Rosalie after the kid? 



269 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




From the corner of my eye, I saw Edward nod once, 
absently, not looking in my direction. But I knew he 
was answering my questions. 

Huh. I wouldn’t have thought the ice-cold Barbie 
would have a maternal side. So much for protecting 
Bella — Rosalie’d probably jam the tube down Bella’s 
throat herself. Edward’s mouth mashed into a hard 
line, and I knew I was right again. 

“Well, we don’t have time to sit around discussing 
this,” Rosalie said impatiently. 

“What do you think, Carlisle? Can we try?” 

Carlisle took a deep breath, and then he was on his 
feet. “We’ll ask Bella.” 

Blondie smiled smugly — sure that, if it was up to 
Bella, she would get her way. I dragged myself up 
from the stairs and followed after them as they 
disappeared into the house. I wasn’t sure why. Just 
morbid curiosity, maybe. It was like a horror movie. 
Monsters and blood all over the place. 

Maybe I just couldn’t resist another hit of my 
dwindling drug supply. Bella lay flat on the hospital 
bed, her belly a mountain under the sheet. She 
looked like wax — colorless and sort of see-through. 
You’d think she was already dead, except for the tiny 
movement of her chest, her shallow breathing. And 
then her eyes, following the four of us with exhausted 
suspicion. 



270 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The others were at her side already, flitting across the 
room with sudden darting motions. It was creepy to 
watch. I ambled along at a slow walk. 

“What’s going on?” Bella demanded in a scratchy 
whisper. Her waxy hand twitched up 

— like she was trying to protect her balloon-shaped 
stomach. 

“Jacob had an idea that might help you,” Carlisle 
said. I wished he would leave me out of it. I hadn’t 
suggested anything. Give the credit to her 
bloodsucking husband, where it belonged. “It won’t 
be... pleasant, but — ” 

“But it will help the baby,” Rosalie interrupted 
eagerly. “We’ve thought of a better way to feed him. 
Maybe.” 

Bella’s eyelids fluttered. Then she coughed out a weak 
chuckle. “Not pleasant?” she whispered. “Gosh, that’ll 
be such a change.” She eyed the tube stuck into her 
arm and coughed again. 

Blondie laughed with her. 

The girl looked like she only had hours left, and she 
had to be in pain, but she was making jokes. So 
Bella. Trying to ease the tension, make it better for 
everyone else. Edward stepped around Rosalie, no 
humor touching his intense expression. I was glad for 
that. It helped, just a little bit, that he was suffering 
worse than me. He took her hand, not the one that 
was still protecting her swollen belly. 



271 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella, love, we’re going to ask you to do something 
monstrous,” he said, using the same adjectives he’d 
offered me. “Repulsive.” 

Well, at least he was giving it to her straight. 

She took a shallow, fluttery breath. “How bad?” 

Carlisle answered. “We think the fetus might have an 
appetite closer to ours than to yours. We think it’s 
thirsty.” 

She blinked. “Oh. Oh.” 

“Your condition — both of your conditions — are 
deteriorating rapidly. We don’t have time to waste, to 
come up with more palatable ways to do this. The 
fastest way to test the theory — ” 

“I’ve got to drink it,” she whispered. She nodded 
slightly — barely enough energy for a little head bob. “I 
can do that. Practice for the future, right?” Her 
colorless lips stretched into a faint grin as she looked 
at Edward. He didn’t smile back. Rosalie started 
tapping her toe impatiently. The sound was really 
irritating. I wondered what she would do if I threw her 
through a wall right now. 

“So, who’s going to catch me a grizzly bear?” Bella 
whispered. 

Carlisle and Edward exchanged a quick glance. 

Rosalie stopped tapping. 

“What?” Bella asked. 



272 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It will be a more effective test if we don’t cut corners, 
Bella,” Carlisle said. 

“If the fetus is craving blood,” Edward explained, “it’s 
not craving animal blood.” 

“It won’t make a difference to you, Bella. Don’t think 
about it,” Rosalie encouraged. Bella’s eyes widened. 
“Who?” she breathed, and her gaze flickered to me. 

“I’m not here as a donor, Bells,” I grumbled. “’Sides, 
it’s human blood that thing’s after, and I don’t think 
mine applies — ” 

“We have blood on hand,” Rosalie told her, talking 
over me before I’d finished, like I wasn’t there. “For 
you — just in case. Don’t worry about anything at all. 
It’s going to be fine. I have a good feeling about this, 
Bella. I think the baby will be so much better.” 

Bella’s hand ran across her stomach. 

“Well,” she rasped, barely audible. “I’m starving, so I’ll 
bet he is, too.” Trying to make another joke. “Let’s go 
for it. My first vampire act.” 



273 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




GOOD THING I’VE GOT A STRONG STOMACH 



Carlisle and Rosalie were off in a flash, darting 
upstairs. I could hear them debating whether they 
should warm it up for her. Ugh. I wondered what all 
house-of-horrors stuff they kept around here. Fridge 
full of blood, check. What else? Torture chamber? 
Coffin room? 

Edward stayed, holding Bella’s hand. His face was 
dead again. He didn’t seem to have the energy to keep 
up even that little hint of hope he’d had before. They 
stared into each other’s eyes, but not in a gooey way. 

It was like they were having a conversation. Kind of 
reminded me of Sam and Emily. 

No, it wasn’t gooey, but that only made it harder to 
watch. 

I knew what it was like for Leah, having to see that all 
the time. Having to hear it in Sam’s head. Of course 
we all felt bad for her, we weren’t monsters — in that 
sense, anyway. But I guess we’d blamed her for how 
she handled it. Lashing out at everyone, trying to 
make us all as miserable as she was. 

I would never blame her again. How could anyone 
help spreading this kind of misery around? How could 
anyone not try to ease some of the burden by shoving 
a little piece of it off on someone else? 

And if it meant that I had to have a pack, how could I 
blame her for taking my freedom? 



274 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



I would do the same. If there was a way to escape this 
pain, I’d take it, too. Rosalie darted downstairs after a 
second, flying through the room like a sharp breeze, 
stirring up the burning smell. She stopped inside the 
kitchen, and I heard the creak of a cupboard door. 

“Not clear, Rosalie,” Edward murmured. He rolled his 
eyes. Bella looked curious, but Edward just shook his 
head at her. 

Rosalie blew back through the room and disappeared 
again. 

“This was your idea?” Bella whispered, her voice 
rough as she strained to make it loud enough for me 
to hear. Forgetting that I could hear just fine. I kind 
of liked how, a lot of the time, she seemed to forget 
that I wasn’t completely human. I moved closer, so 
that she wouldn’t have to work so hard. 

“Don’t blame me for this one. Your vampire was just 
picking snide comments out of my head.” 

She smiled a little. “I didn’t expect to see you again.” 

“Yeah, me, either,” I said. 

It felt weird just standing here, but the vampires had 
shoved all the furniture out of the way for the medical 
setup. I imagined that it didn’t bother them — sitting 
or standing didn’t make much difference when you 
were stone. Wouldn’t bother me much, either, except 
that I was so exhausted. 

“Edward told me what you had to do. I’m sorry.” 



275 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“S’okay. It was probably only a matter of time till I 
snapped over something Sam wanted me to do,” I lied. 

“And Seth,” she whispered. 

“He’s actually happy to help.” 

“I hate causing you trouble.” 

I laughed once — more a bark than a laugh. 

She breathed a faint sigh. “I guess that’s nothing new, 
is it?” 

“No, not really.” 

“You don’t have to stay and watch this,” she said, 
barely mouthing the words. I could leave. It was 
probably a good idea. But if I did, with the way she 
looked right now, I could be missing the last fifteen 
minutes of her life. 

“I don’t really have anywhere else to go,” I told her, 
trying to keep the emotion out of my voice. “The wolf 
thing is a lot less appealing since Leah joined up.” 

“Leah?” she gasped. 

“You didn’t tell her?” I asked Edward. 

He just shrugged without moving his eyes from her 
face. I could see it wasn’t very exciting news to him, 
not something worth sharing with the more important 
events that were going down. 

Bella didn’t take it so lightly. It looked like it was bad 
news to her. 

“Why?” she breathed. 

276 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t want to get into the whole novel-length 
version. “To keep an eye on Seth.” 

“But Leah hates us,” she whispered. 

Us. Nice. I could see that she was afraid, though. 

“Leah’s not going to bug anyone.” But me. “She’s in 
my pack” — I grimaced at the words — “so she follows 
my lead.” Ugh. 

Bella didn’t look convinced. 

“You’re scared of Leah, but you’re best buds with the 
psychopath blonde?” 

There was a low hiss from the second floor. Cool, 
she’d heard me. Bella frowned at me. “Don’t. Rose... 
understands.” 

“Yeah,” I grunted. “She understands that you’re 
gonna die and she doesn’t care, s’long as she gets her 
mutant spawn out of the deal.” 

“Stop being a jerk, Jacob,” she whispered. 

She looked too weak to get mad at. I tried to smile 
instead. “You say that like it’s possible.” 

Bella tried not to smile back for a second, but she 
couldn’t help it in the end; her chalky lips pulled up 
at the corners. 

And then Carlisle and the psycho in question were 
there. Carlisle had a white plastic cup in his hand — 
the kind with a lid and a bendy straw. Oh — not clear; 
now I got it. Edward didn’t want Bella to have to think 
about what she was doing any more than necessary. 



277 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




You couldn’t see what was in the cup at all. But I 
could smell it. Carlisle hesitated, the hand with the 
cup half-extended. Bella eyed it, looking scared again. 

“We could try another method,” Carlisle said quietly. 

“No,” Bella whispered. “No, I’ll try this first. We don’t 
have time. ...” 

At first I thought she’d finally gotten a clue and was 
worried about herself, but then her hand fluttered 
feebly against her stomach. 

Bella reached out and took the cup from him. Her 
hand shook a little, and I could hear the sloshing 
from inside. She tried to prop herself up on one 
elbow, but she could barely lift her head. A whisper of 
heat brushed down my spine as I saw how frail she’d 
gotten in less than a day. 

Rosalie put her arm under Bella’s shoulders, 
supporting her head, too, like you did with a 
newborn. Blondie was all about the babies. 

“Thanks,” Bella whispered. Her eyes flickered around 
at us. Still aware enough to feel self-conscious. If she 
wasn’t so drained, I’d bet she’d’ve blushed. 

“Don’t mind them,” Rosalie murmured. 

It made me feel awkward. I should’ve left when Bella’d 
offered the chance. I didn’t belong here, being part of 
this. I thought about ducking out, but then I realized 
a move like that would only make this worse for 
Bella — make it harder for her to go through with it. 
She’d figure I was too disgusted to stay. Which was 
almost true. Still. While I wasn’t going to claim 
278 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




responsibility for this idea, I didn’t want to jinx it, 
either. 

Bella lifted the cup to her face and sniffed at the end 
of the straw. She flinched, and then made a face. 

“Bella, sweetheart, we can find an easier way,” 

Edward said, holding his hand out for the cup. 

“Plug your nose,” Rosalie suggested. She glared at 
Edward’s hand like she might take a snap at it. I 
wished she would. I bet Edward wouldn’t take that 
sitting down, and I’d love to see Blondie lose a limb. 

“No, that’s not it. It’s just that it — ” Bella sucked in a 
deep breath. “It smells good,” she admitted in a tiny 
voice. 

I swallowed hard, fighting to keep the disgust off my 
face. 

“That’s a good thing,” Rosalie told Bella eagerly. “That 
means we’re on the right track. Give it a try.” Given 
Blondie’s new expression, I was surprised she didn’t 
break into a touchdown dance. 

Bella shoved the straw between her lips, squeezed her 
eyes shut, and wrinkled her nose. I could hear the 
blood slopping around in the cup again as her hand 
shook. She sipped at it for a second, and then 
moaned quietly with her eyes still closed. Edward and 
I stepped forward at the same time. He touched her 
face. I clenched my hands behind my back. 

“Bella, love—” 



279 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm okay,” she whispered. She opened her eyes and 
stared up at him. Her expression was... apologetic. 
Pleading. Scared. “It tastes good, too.” 

Acid churned in my stomach, threatening to overflow. 
I ground my teeth together. 

“That’s good,” Blondie repeated, still jazzed. “A good 
sign.” 

Edward just pressed his hand to her cheek, curling 
his fingers around the shape of her fragile bones. 

Bella sighed and put her lips to the straw again. She 
took a real pull this time. The action wasn’t as weak 
as everything else about her. Like some instinct was 
taking over. 

“How’s your stomach? Do you feel nauseated?” 
Carlisle asked. 

Bella shook her head. “No, I don’t feel sick,” she 
whispered. “There’s a first, eh?” 

Rosalie beamed. “Excellent.” 

“I think it’s a bit early for that, Rose,” Carlisle 
murmured. 

Bella gulped another mouthful of blood. Then she 
flashed a look at Edward. “Does this screw my total?” 
she whispered. “Or do we start counting after I’m a 
vampire?” 

“No one is counting, Bella. In any case, no one died 
for this.” He smiled a lifeless smile. 

“Your record is still clean.” 



280 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




They’d lost me. 

“I’ll explain later,” Edward said, so low the words were 
just a breath. 

“What?” Bella whispered. 

“Just talking to myself,” he lied smoothly. 

If he succeeded with this, if Bella lived, Edward 
wasn’t going to be able to get away with so much 
when her senses were as sharp as his. He’d have to 
work on the honesty thing. 

Edward’s lips twitched, fighting a smile. 

Bella chugged a few more ounces, staring past us 
toward the window. Probably pretending we weren’t 
here. Or maybe just me. No one else in this group 
would be disgusted by what she was doing. Just the 
opposite — they were probably having a tough time not 
ripping the cup away from her. 

Edward rolled his eyes. 

Jeez, how did anyone stand living with him? It was 
really too bad he couldn’t hear Bella’s thoughts. Then 
he’d annoy the crap out of her, too, and she’d get 
tired of him. Edward chuckled once. Bella’s eyes 
flicked to him immediately, and she half-smiled at the 
humor in his face. I would guess that wasn’t 
something she’d seen in a while. 

“Something funny?” she breathed. 

“Jacob,” he answered. 



281 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She looked over with another weary smile for me. 
“Jake’s a crack-up,” she agreed. Great, now I was the 
court jester. “Bada bing,” I mumbled in weak rim-shot 
impression. She smiled again, and then took another 
swig from the cup. I flinched when the straw pulled at 
empty air, making a loud sucking sound. 

“I did it,” she said, sounding pleased. Her voice was 
clearer — rough, but not a whisper for the first time 
today. “If I keep this down, Carlisle, will you take the 
needles out of me?” 

“As soon as possible,” he promised. “Honestly, they 
aren’t doing that much good where they are.” 

Rosalie patted Bella’s forehead, and they exchanged a 
hopeful glance. And anyone could see it — the cup full 
of human blood had made an immediate difference. 
Her color was returning — there was a tiny hint of pink 
in her waxy cheeks. Already she didn’t seem to need 
Rosalie’s support so much anymore. Her breathing 
was easier, and I would swear her heartbeat was 
stronger, more even. Everything accelerated. 

That ghost of hope in Edward’s eyes had turned into 
the real thing. 

“Would you like more?” Rosalie pressed. 

Bella’s shoulders slumped. 

Edward flashed a glare at Rosalie before he spoke to 
Bella. “You don’t have to drink more right away.” 

“Yeah, I know. But... I want to,” she admitted glumly. 



282 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Rosalie pulled her thin, sharp fingers through Bella’s 
lank hair. “You don’t need to be embarrassed about 
that, Bella. Your body has cravings. We all 
understand that.” Her tone was soothing at first, but 
then she added harshly, “Anyone who doesn’t 
understand shouldn’t be here.” 

Meant for me, obviously, but I wasn’t going to let 
Blondie get to me. I was glad Bella felt better. So what 
if the means grossed me out? It wasn’t like I’d said 
anything. Carlisle took the cup from Bella’s hand. “I’ll 
be right back.” 

Bella stared at me while he disappeared. 

“Jake, you look awful,” she croaked. 

“Look who’s talking.” 

“Seriously — when’s the last time you slept?” 

I thought about that for a second. “Huh. I’m not 
actually sure.” 

“Aw, Jake. Now I’m messing with your health, too. 
Don’t be stupid.” 

I gritted my teeth. She was allowed to kill herself for a 
monster, but I wasn’t allowed to miss a few nights’ 
sleep to watch her do it? 

“Get some rest, please,” she went on. “There’re a few 
beds upstairs — you’re welcome to any of them.” 

The look on Rosalie’s face made it clear that I wasn’t 
welcome to one of them. It made me wonder what 



283 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Sleepless Beauty needed a bed for anyway. Was she 
that possessive of her props? 

“Thanks, Bells, but I’d rather sleep on the ground. 
Away from the stench, you know.” 

She grimaced. “Right.” 

Carlisle was back then, and Bella reached out for the 
blood, absentminded, like she was thinking of 
something else. With the same distracted expression, 
she started sucking it down. 

She really was looking better. She pulled herself 
forward, being careful of the tubes, and scooted into a 
sitting position. Rosalie hovered, her hands ready to 
catch Bella if she sagged. But Bella didn’t need her. 
Taking deep breaths in between swallows, Bella 
finished the second cup quickly. 

“How do you feel now?” Carlisle asked. 

“Not sick. Sort of hungry... only I’m not sure if I’m 
hungry or thirsty, you know?” 

“Carlisle, just look at her,” Rosalie murmured, so 
smug she should have canary feathers on her lips. 
“This is obviously what her body wants. She should 
drink more.” 

“She’s still human, Rosalie. She needs food, too. Let’s 
give her a little while to see how this affects her, and 
then maybe we can try some food again. Does 
anything sound particularly good to you, Bella?” 

“Eggs,” she said immediately, and then she 
exchanged a look and a smile with Edward. His smile 



284 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




was brittle, but there was more life on his face than 
before. I blinked then, and almost forgot how to open 
my eyes again. 

“Jacob,” Edward murmured. “You really should sleep. 
As Bella said, you’re certainly welcome to the 
accommodations here, though you’d probably be 
more comfortable outside. Don’t worry about 
anything — I promise I’ll find you if there’s a need.” 

“Sure, sure,” I mumbled. Now that it appeared Bella 
had a few more hours, I could escape. Go curl up 
under a tree somewhere.... Far enough away that the 
smell couldn’t reach me. The bloodsucker would wake 
me up if something went wrong. He owed me. 

“I do,” Edward agreed. 

I nodded and then put my hand on Bella’s. Hers was 
icy cold. 

“Feel better,” I said. 

“Thanks, Jacob.” She turned her hand over and 
squeezed mine. I felt the thin band of her wedding 
ring riding loose on her skinny finger. 

“Get her a blanket or something,” I muttered as I 
turned for the door. Before I made it, two howls 
pierced the still morning air. There was no mistaking 
the urgency of the tone. No misunderstanding this 
time. 

“Dammit,” I snarled, and I threw myself through the 
door. I hurled my body off the porch, letting the fire 
rip me apart midair. There was a sharp tearing sound 
as my shorts shredded. Crap. Those were the only 

285 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




clothes I had. Didn’t matter now. I landed on paws 
and took off toward the west. 

What is it? I shouted in my head. 

Incoming, Seth answered. At least three. 

Did they split up? 

I’m running the line back to Seth at the speed of light, 
Leah promised. I could feel the air huffing through 
her lungs as she pushed herself to an incredible 
velocity. The forest whipped around her. So far, no 
other point of attack. 

Seth, do not challenge them. Wait for me. 

They’re slowing. Ugh — it’s so off not being able to hear 
them. I think... 

What? 

I think they’ve stopped. 

Waiting for the rest of the pack? 

Shh. Feel that? 

I absorbed his impressions. The faint, soundless 
shimmer in the air. Someone’s phasing? 

Feels like it, Seth agreed. 

Leah flew into the small open space where Seth 
waited. She raked her claws into the dirt, spinning 
out like a race car. 

Got your back, bro. 



286 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




They’re coming, Seth said nervously. Slow. Walking. 
Almost there, I told them. I tried to fly like Leah. It felt 
horrible being separated from Seth and Leah with 
potential danger closer to their end than mine. 

Wrong. I should be with them, between them and 
whatever was coming. 

Look who’s getting all paternal, Leah thought wryly. 
Head in the game, Leah. 

Four, Seth decided. Kid had good ears. Three wolves, 
one man. I made the little clearing then, moving 
immediately to the point. Seth sighed with relief and 
then straightened up, already in place at my right 
shoulder. Leah fell in on my left with a little less 
enthusiasm. 

So now I rank under Seth, she grumbled to herself. 

First come, first served, Seth thought smugly. ’Sides, 
you were never an Alpha’s Third before. Still an 
upgrade. 

Under my baby brother is not an upgrade. 

Shh! I complained. I don’t care where you stand. Shut 
up and get ready. They came into view a few seconds 
later, walking, as Seth had thought. Jared in the 
front, human, hands up. Paul and Quil and Collin on 
four legs behind him. There was no aggression in 
their postures. They hung back behind Jared, ears 
up, alert but calm. But... it was weird that Sam would 
send Collin rather than Embry. That wasn’t what I 
would do if I were sending a diplomacy party into 



287 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




enemy territory. I wouldn’t send a kid. I’d send the 
experienced fighter. 

A diversion? Leah thought. 

Were Sam, Embry, and Brady making a move alone? 
That didn’t seem likely. Want me to check? I can run 
the line and be back in two minutes. Should I warn 
the Cullens? Seth wondered. 

What if the point was to divide us? I asked. The 
Cullens know something’s up. They’re ready. 

Sam wouldn’t be so stupid..., Leah whispered, fear 
jagged in her mind. She was imagining Sam attacking 
the Cullens with only the two others beside him. No, 
he wouldn’t, I assured her, though I felt a little sick at 
the image in her head, too. All the while, Jared and 
the three wolves stared at us, waiting. It was eerie not 
to hear what Quil and Paul and Collin were saying to 
one another. Their expressions were blank 

— unreadable. 

Jared cleared his throat, and then he nodded to me. 
“White flag of truce, Jake. We’re here to talk.” 

Think it’s true? Seth asked. 

Makes sense, but... 

Yeah, Leah agreed. But. 

We didn’t relax. 

Jared frowned. “It would be easier to talk if I could 
hear you, too.” 



288 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared him down. I wasn’t going to phase back until 
I felt better about this situation. Until it made sense. 
Why Collin? That was the part that had me most 
worried. 

“Okay. I guess I’ll just talk, then,” Jared said. “Jake, 
we want you to come back.” 

Quil let out a soft whine behind him. Seconding the 
statement. 

“You’ve torn our family apart. It’s not meant to be this 
way.” 

I wasn’t exactly in disagreement with that, but it was 
hardly the point. There were a few unresolved 
differences of opinion between me and Sam at the 
moment. 

“We know that you feel... strongly about the situation 
with the Cullens. We know that’s a problem. But this 
is an overreaction.” 

Seth growled. Overreaction? And attacking our allies 
without warning isn’t ? 

Seth, you ever heard of a poker face? Cool it. 

Sorry. 

Jared’s eyes flickered to Seth and back to me. “Sam is 
willing to take this slowly, Jacob. He’s calmed down, 
talked to the other Elders. They’ve decided that 
immediate action is in no one’s best interest at this 
point.” 



289 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Translation: They’ve already lost the element of 
surprise, Leah thought. It was weird how distinct our 
joint thinking was. The pack was already Sam’s pack, 
was already “them” to us. Something outside and 
other. It was especially weird to have Leah thinking 
that way — to have her be a solid part of the “us.” 

“Billy and Sue agree with you, Jacob, that we can 
wait for Bella... to be separated from the problem. 
Killing her is not something any of us feel comfortable 
with.” 

Though I’d just given Seth crap for it, I couldn’t hold 
back a small snarl of my own. So they didn’t quite feel 
comfortable with murder, huh? 

Jared raised his hands again. “Easy, Jake. You know 
what I mean. The point is, we’re going to wait and 
reassess the situation. Decide later if there’s a 
problem with the... 

thing.” 

Ha, Leah thought. What a load. 

You don’t buy it? 

I know what they’re thinking, Jake. What Sam’s 
thinking. They’re betting on Bella dying anyway. And 
then they figure you’ll be so mad... 

That 111 lead the attack myself. My ears pressed 
against my skull. What Leah was guessing sounded 
pretty spot-on. And very possible, too. When... if that 
thing killed Bella, it was going to be easy to forget 
how I felt about Carlisle’s family right now. They 



290 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




would probably look like enemies — like no more than 
bloodsucking leeches — to me all over again. 

I’ll remind you, Seth whispered. 

I know you will, kid. Question is whether I’ll listen to 
you. 

“Jake?” Jared asked. 

I huffed a sigh. 

Leah, make a circuit — just to be sure. I’m going to 
have to talk to him, and I want to be positive there 
isn’t anything else going on while I’m phased. Give me 
a break, Jacob. You can phase in front of me. Despite 
my best efforts, I’ve seen you naked before — doesn’t 
do much for me, so no worries. 

I’m not trying to protect the innocence of your eyes, 
I’m trying to protect our backs. Get out of here. 

Leah snorted once and then launched herself into the 
forest. I could hear her claws cutting into the soil, 
pushing her faster. 

Nudity was an inconvenient but unavoidable part of 
pack life. We’d all thought nothing of it before Leah 
came along. Then it got awkward. Leah had average 
control when it came to her temper — it took her the 
usual length of time to stop exploding out of her 
clothes every time she got pissed. We’d all caught a 
glimpse. And it wasn’t like she wasn’t worth looking 
at; it was just that it was so not worth it when she 
caught you thinking about it later. 



291 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jared and the others were staring at the place where 
she’d disappeared into the brush with wary 
expressions. 

“Where’s she going?” Jared asked. 

I ignored him, closing my eyes and pulling myself 
together again. It felt like the air was trembling 
around me, shaking out from me in small waves. I 
lifted myself up on my hind legs, catching the 
moment just right so that I was fully upright as I 
shimmered down into my human self. 

“Oh,” Jared said. “Hey, Jake.” 

“Hey, Jared.” 

“Thanks for talking to me.” 

“Yeah.” 

“We want you to come back, man.” 

Quil whined again. 

“I don’t know if it’s that easy, Jared.” 

“Come home,” he said, leaning forward. Pleading. “We 
can sort this out. You don’t belong here. Let Seth and 
Leah come home, too.” 

I laughed. “Right. Like I haven’t been begging them to 
do that from hour one.” 

Seth snorted behind me. 

Jared assessed that, his eyes cautious again. “So, 
what now, then?” 



292 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I thought that over for a minute while he waited. 

“I don’t know. But I’m not sure things could just go 
back to normal anyway, Jared. I don’t know how it 
works — it doesn’t feel like I can just turn this Alpha 
thing off and on as the mood strikes. It feels sort of 
permanent.” 

“You still belong with us.” 

I raised my eyebrows. “Two Alphas can’t belong in the 
same place, Jared. Remember how close it got last 
night? The instinct is too competitive.” 

“So are you all just going to hang out with the 
parasites for the rest of your lives?” he demanded. 
“You don’t have a home here. You’re already out of 
clothes,” he pointed out. 

“You gonna stay wolf all the time? You know Leah 
doesn’t like eating that way.” 

“Leah can do whatever she wants when she gets 
hungry. She’s here by her own choice. I’m not telling 
anyone what to do.” 

Jared sighed. “Sam is sorry about what he did to 
you.” 

I nodded. “I’m not angry anymore.” 

“But?” 

“But I’m not coming back, not now. We’re going to 
wait and see how it plays out, too. And we’re going to 
watch out for the Cullens for as long as that seems 
necessary. Because, despite what you think, this isn’t 



293 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




just about Bella. We’re protecting those who should 
be protected. And that applies to the Cullens, too.” At 
least a fair number of them, anyway. 

Seth yelped softly in agreement. 

Jared frowned. “I guess there’s nothing I can say to 
you, then.” 

“Not now. We’ll see how things go.” 

Jared turned to face Seth, concentrating on him now, 
separate from me. “Sue asked me to tell you — no, to 
beg you — to come home. She’s brokenhearted, Seth. 
All alone. I don’t know how you and Leah can do this 
to her. Abandon her this way, when your dad just 
barely died — ” 

Seth whimpered. 

“Ease up, Jared,” I warned. 

“Just letting him know how it is.” 

I snorted. “Right.” Sue was tougher than anyone I 
knew. Tougher than my dad, tougher than me. Tough 
enough to play on her kids’ sympathies if that’s what 
it took to get them home. But it wasn’t fair to work 
Seth that way. “Sue’s known about this for how many 
hours now? And most of that time spent with Billy 
and Old Quil and Sam? Yeah, I’m sure she’s just 
perishing of loneliness. ’Course you’re free to go if you 
want, Seth. You know that.” 

Seth sniffed. 



294 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Then, a second later, he cocked an ear to the north. 
Leah must be close. Jeez, she was fast. Two beats, 
and Leah skidded to a stop in the brush a few yards 
away. She trotted in, taking the point in front of Seth. 
She kept her nose in the air, very obviously not 
looking in my direction. 

I appreciated that. 

“Leah?” Jared asked. 

She met his gaze, her muzzle pulling back a little over 
her teeth. Jared didn’t seem surprised by her 
hostility. “Leah, you know you don’t want to be here.” 

She snarled at him. I gave her a warning glance she 
didn’t see. Seth whined and nudged her with his 
shoulder. 

“Sorry,” Jared said. “Guess I shouldn’t assume. But 
you don’t have any ties to the bloodsuckers.” 

Leah very deliberately looked at her brother and then 
at me. 

“So you want to watch out for Seth, I get that,” Jared 
said. His eyes touched my face and then went back to 
hers. Probably wondering about that second look — 
just like I was. “But Jake’s not going to let anything 
happen to him, and he’s not afraid to be here.” Jared 
made a face. “Anyway, please, Leah. We want you 
back. Sam wants you back.” 

Leah’s tail twitched. 



295 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sam told me to beg. He told me to literally get down 
on my knees if I have to. He wants you home, Lee-lee, 
where you belong.” 

I saw Leah flinch when Jared used Sam’s old 
nickname for her. And then, when he added those 
last three words, her hackles rose and she was 
yowling a long stream of snarls through her teeth. I 
didn’t have to be in her head to hear the cussing-out 
she was giving him, and neither did he. You could 
almost hear the exact words she was using. I waited 
till she was done. “I’m going to go out on a limb here 
and say that Leah belongs wherever she wants to be.” 

Leah growled, but, as she was glaring at Jared, I 
figured it was in agreement. 

“Look, Jared, we’re still family, okay? We’ll get past 
the feud, but, until we do, you probably ought to stick 
to your land. Just so there aren’t misunderstandings. 
Nobody wants a family brawl, right? Sam doesn’t 
want that, either, does he?” 

“Of course, not,” Jared snapped. “We’ll stick to our 
land. But where is your land, Jacob? 

Is it vampire land?” 

“No, Jared. Homeless at the moment. But don’t 
worry — this isn’t going to last forever.” 

I had to take a breath. “There’s not that much time... 
left. Okay? Then the Cullens will probably go, and 
Seth and Leah will come home.” 

Leah and Seth whined together, their noses turning 
my direction in synchronization. 

296 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“And what about you, Jake?” 

“Back to the forest, I think. I can’t really stick around 
La Push. Two Alphas means too much tension. ’Sides, 
I was headed that way anyway. Before this mess.” 

“What if we need to talk?” Jared asked. 

“Howl — but watch the line, ’kay? We’ll come to you. 
And Sam doesn’t need to send so many. We aren’t 
looking for a fight.” 

Jared scowled, but nodded. He didn’t like me setting 
conditions for Sam. “See you around, Jake. Or not.” 
He waved halfheartedly. 

“Wait, Jared. Is Embry okay?” 

Surprise crossed his face. “Embry? Sure, he’s fine. 
Why?” 

“Just wondering why Sam sent Collin.” 

I watched his reaction, still suspicious that something 
was going on. I saw knowledge flash in his eyes, but it 
didn’t look like the kind I was expecting. 

“That’s not really your business anymore, Jake.” 

“Guess not. Just curious.” 

I saw a twitch from the corner of my eye, but I didn’t 
acknowledge it, because I didn’t want to give Quil 
away. He was reacting to the subject. 

“I’ll let Sam know about your... instructions. 

Goodbye, Jacob.” 



297 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I sighed. “Yeah. Bye, Jared. Hey, tell my dad that I’m 
okay, will you? And that I’m sorry, and that I love 
him.” 

“I’ll pass that along.” 

“Thanks.” 

“C’mon, guys,” Jared said. He turned away from us, 
heading out of sight to phase because Leah was here. 
Paul and Collin were right on his heels, but Quil 
hesitated. He yelped softly, and I took a step toward 
him. 

“Yeah, I miss you, too, bro.” 

Quil jogged over to me, his head hanging down 
morosely. I patted his shoulder. 

“It’ll be okay.” 

He whined. 

“Tell Embry I miss having you two on my flanks.” 

He nodded and then pressed his nose to my forehead. 
Leah snorted. Quil looked up, but not at her. He 
looked back over his shoulder at where the others 
had gone. 

“Yeah, go home,” I told him. 

Quil yelped again and then took off after the others. 
I’d bet Jared wasn’t waiting superpatiently. As soon 
as he was gone, I pulled the warmth from the center 
of my body and let it surge through my limbs. In a 
flash of heat, I was on four legs again. Thought you 



298 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




were going to make out with him, Leah snickered. I 
ignored her. 

Was that okay? I asked them. It worried me, speaking 
for them that way, when I couldn’t hear exactly what 
they were thinking. I didn’t want to assume anything. 

I didn’t want to be like Jared that way. Did I say 
anything you didn’t want me to? Did I not say 
something I should have? 

You did great, Jake! Seth encouraged. 

You could have hit Jared, Leah thought. I wouldn’t 
have minded that. I guess we know why Embry wasn’t 
allowed to come, Seth thought. I didn’t understand. 
Not allowed? 

Jake, didya see Quil? He’s pretty torn up, right? I’d 
put ten to one that Embry’s even more upset. And 
Embry doesn’t have a Claire. There’s no way Quil can 
just pick up and walk away from La Push. Embry 
might. So Sam’s not going to take any chances on 
him getting convinced to jump ship. He doesn’t want 
our pack any bigger than it is now. Really? You 
think? I doubt Embry would mind shredding some 
Cullens. But he’s your best friend, Jake. He and Quil 
would rather stand behind you than face you in a 
fight. 

Well, I’m glad Sam kept him home, then. This pack is 
big enough. I sighed. Okay, then. So we’re good, for 
now. Seth, you mind keeping an eye on things for a 
while? Leah and I both need to crash. This felt on the 
level, but who knows? Maybe it was a distraction. I 
wasn’t always so paranoid, but I remembered the feel 
of Sam’s commitment. The total one-track focus on 
299 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




destroying the danger he saw. Would he take 
advantage of the fact that he could lie to us now? 

No problem! Seth was only too eager to do whatever 
he could. You want me to explain to the Cullens? 
They’re probably still kinda tense. 

I got it. I want to check things out anyway. 

They caught the whir of images from my fried brain. 

Seth whimpered in surprise. Ew. 

Leah whipped her head back and forth like she was 
trying to shake the image out of her mind. That is 
easily the freakin’ grossest thing I’ve heard in my life. 
Yuck. If there was anything in my stomach, it would 
be coming back. 

They are vampires, I guess, Seth allowed after a 
minute, compensating for Leah’s reaction. I mean, it 
makes sense. And if it helps Bella, it’s a good thing, 
right? 

Both Leah and I stared at him. 

What? 

Mom dropped him a lot when he was a baby, Leah 
told me. On his head, apparently. 

He used to gnaw on the crib bars, too. 

Lead paint? 

Looks like it, she thought. 

Seth snorted. Funny. Why don’t you two shut up and 
sleep? 

300 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




t'ljffiafder If 

YOU KNOW THINGS ARE BAD WHEN YOU FEEL 
GUILTY FOR BEING RUDE TO VAMPIRES 

When I got back to the house, there was no one 
waiting outside for my report. Still on alert? 

Everything’s cool, I thought tiredly. 

My eyes quickly caught a small change in the now- 
familiar scene. There was a stack of light-colored 
fabric on the bottom step of the porch. I loped over to 
investigate. Holding my breath, because the vampire 
smell stuck to the fabric like you wouldn’t believe, I 
nudged the stack with my nose. 

Someone had laid out clothes. Huh. Edward must 
have caught my moment of irritation as I’d bolted out 
the door. Well. That was... nice. And weird. 

I took the clothes gingerly between my teeth — ugh — 
and carried them back to the trees. Just in case this 
was some joke by the blond psychopath and I had a 
bunch of girls’ stuff here. Bet she’d love to see the 
look on my human face as I stood there naked, 
holding a sundress. 

In the cover of the trees, I dropped the stinking pile 
and shifted back to human. I shook the clothes out, 
snapping them against a tree to beat some of the 
smell from them. They were definitely guy’s clothes — 
tan pants and a white button-down shirt. Neither of 
them long enough, but they looked like they’d fit 
around me. Must be Emmett’s. I rolled the cuffs up 



301 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



on the shirtsleeves, but there wasn’t much I could do 
about the pants. Oh well. I had to admit, I felt better 
with some clothes to my name, even stinky ones that 
didn’t quite fit. It was hard not being able to just jet 
back home and grab another pair of old sweatpants 
when I needed them. The homeless thing again — not 
having anyplace to go back to. No possessions, either, 
which wasn’t bothering me too bad now, but would 
probably get annoying soon. 

Exhausted, I walked slowly up the Cullens’ porch 
steps in my fancy new secondhand clothes but 
hesitated when I got to the door. Did I knock? Stupid, 
when they knew I was here. I wondered why no one 
acknowledged that — told me either to come in or get 
lost. Whatever. I shrugged and let myself in. 

More changes. The room had shifted back to normal — 
almost — in the last twenty minutes. The big flat- 
screen was on, low volume, showing some chick flick 
that no one seemed to be watching. Carlisle and Esme 
stood by the back windows, which were open to the 
river again. Alice, Jasper, and Emmett were out of 
sight, but I heard them murmuring upstairs. Bella 
was on the couch like yesterday, with just one tube 
still hooked into her, and an IV hanging behind the 
back of the sofa. She was wrapped up like a burrito in 
a couple of thick quilts, so at least they’d listened to 
me before. Rosalie was cross-legged on the ground by 
her head. Edward sat at the other end of the couch 
with Bella’s burrito ’ed feet in his lap. He looked up 
when I came in and smiled at me — 

just a little twitch of his mouth — like something 
pleased him. 

302 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Bella didn’t hear me. She only glanced up when he 
did, and then she smiled, too. With real energy, her 
whole face lighting up. I couldn’t remember the last 
time she’d looked so excited to see me. 

What was with her? For crying out loud, she was 
married! Happily married, too — there was no question 
that she was in love with her vampire past the 
boundaries of sanity. And hugely pregnant, to top it 
off. 

So why did she have to be so damn thrilled to see me? 
Like I’d made her whole freakin’ 

day by walking through the door. 

If she would just not care... Or more than that — really 
not want me around. It would be so much easier to 
stay away. 

Edward seemed to be in agreement with my 
thoughts — we were on the same wavelength so much 
lately it was crazy. He was frowning now, reading her 
face while she beamed at me. 

“They just wanted to talk,” I mumbled, my voice 
dragging with exhaustion. “No attack on the horizon.” 

“Yes,” Edward answered. “I heard most of it.” 

That woke me up a little. We’d been a good three 
miles out. “How?” 

“I’m hearing you more clearly — it’s a matter of 
familiarity and concentration. Also, your thoughts are 
slightly easier to pick up when you’re in your human 
form. So I caught most of what passed out there.” 



303 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh.” It bugged me a little, but for no good reason, so 
I shrugged it off. “Good. I hate repeating myself.” 

“I’d tell you to go get some sleep,” Bella said, “but my 
guess is that you’re going to pass out on the floor in 
about six seconds, so there’s probably no point.” 

It was amazing how much better she sounded, how 
much stronger she looked. I smelled fresh blood and 
saw that the cup was in her hands again. How much 
blood would it take to keep her going? At some point, 
would they start trotting in the neighbors? 

I headed for the door, counting off the seconds for her 
as I walked. “One Mississippi... 

two Mississippi . . .” 

“Where’s the flood, mutt?” Rosalie muttered. 

“You know how you drown a blonde, Rosalie?” I asked 
without stopping or turning to look at her. “Glue a 
mirror to the bottom of a pool.” 

I heard Edward chuckle as I pulled the door shut. His 
mood seemed to improve in exact correlation to 
Bella’s health. 

“I’ve already heard that one,” Rosalie called after me. 

I trudged down the steps, my only goal to drag myself 
far enough into the trees that the air would be pure 
again. I planned to ditch the clothes a convenient 
distance from the house for future use rather than 
tying them to my leg, so I wouldn’t be smelling them, 
either. As I fumbled with the buttons on the new 



304 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




shirt, I thought randomly about how buttons would 
never be in style for werewolves. 

I heard the voices while I slogged across the lawn. 

“Where are you going?” Bella asked. 

“There was something I forgot to say to him.” 

“Let Jacob sleep — it can wait.” 

Yes, please, let Jacob sleep. 

“It will only take a moment.” 

I turned slowly. Edward was already out the door. He 
had an apology in his expression as he approached 
me. 

“Jeez, what now?” 

“I’m sorry,” he said, and then he hesitated, like he 
didn’t know how to phrase what he was thinking. 

What’s on your mind, mind reader? 

“When you were speaking to Sam’s delegates earlier,” 
he murmured, “I was giving a play-by-play for Carlisle 
and Esme and the rest. They were concerned — ” 

“Look, we’re not dropping our guard. You don’t have 
to believe Sam like we do. We’re keeping our eyes 
open regardless.” 

“No, no, Jacob. Not about that. We trust your 
judgment. Rather, Esme was troubled by the 
hardships this is putting your pack through. She 
asked me to speak to you privately about it.” 



305 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




That took me off guard. “Hardships?” 

“The homeless part, particularly. She’s very upset 
that you are all so... bereft.” 

I snorted. Vampire mother hen — bizarre. “We’re 
tough. Tell her not to worry.” 

“She’d still like to do what she can. I got the 
impression that Leah prefers not to eat in her wolf 
form?” 

“And?” I demanded. 

“Well, we do have normal human food here, Jacob. 
Keeping up appearances, and, of course, for Bella. 
Leah is welcome to anything she’d like. All of you 
are.” 

“I’ll pass that along.” 

“Leah hates us.” 

“So?” 

“So try to pass it along in such a way as to make her 
consider it, if you don’t mind.” 

“I’ll do what I can.” 

“And then there’s the matter of clothes.” 

I glanced down at the ones I was wearing. “Oh yeah. 
Thanks.” It probably wouldn’t be good manners to 
mention how bad they reeked. 

He smiled, just a little. “Well, we’re easily able to help 
out with any needs there. Alice rarely allows us to 
wear the same thing twice. We’ve got piles of brand- 

306 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




new clothes that are destined for Goodwill, and I’d 
imagine that Leah is fairly close to Esme’s size. ...” 

“Not sure how she’ll feel about bloodsucker castoffs. 
She’s not as practical as I am.” 

“I trust that you can present the offer in the best 
possible light. As well as the offer for any other 
physical object you might need, or transportation, or 
anything else at all. And showers, too, since you 
prefer to sleep outdoors. Please... don’t consider 
yourselves without the benefits of a home.” 

He said the last line softly — not trying to keep quiet 
this time, but with some kind of real emotion. 

I stared at him for a second, blinking sleepily. “That’s, 
er, nice of you. Tell Esme we appreciate the, uh, 
thought. But the perimeter cuts through the river in a 
few places, so we stay pretty clean, thanks.” 

“If you would pass the offer on, regardless.” 

“Sure, sure.” 

“Thank you.” 

I turned away from him, only to stop cold when I 
heard the low, pained cry from inside the house. By 
the time I looked back, he was already gone. 

What now? 

I followed after him, shuffling like a zombie. Using 
about the same number of brain cells, too. It didn’t 
feel like I had a choice. Something was wrong. I would 



307 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




go see what it was. There would be nothing I could 
do. And I would feel worse. It seemed inevitable. 

I let myself in again. Bella was panting, curled over 
the bulge in the center of her body. Rosalie held her 
while Edward, Carlisle, and Esme all hovered. A 
flicker of motion caught my eye; Alice was at the top 
of the stairs, staring down into the room with her 
hands pressed to her temples. It was weird — like she 
was barred from entering somehow. 

“Give me a second, Carlisle,” Bella panted. 

“Bella,” the doctor said anxiously, “I heard something 
crack. I need to take a look.” 

“Pretty sure” — pant — “it was a rib. Ow. Yep. Right 
here.” She pointed to her left side, careful not to 
touch. 

It was breaking her bones now. 

“I need to take an X-ray. There might be splinters. We 
don’t want it to puncture anything.” 

Bella took a deep breath. “Okay.” 

Rosalie lifted Bella carefully. Edward seemed like he 
was going to argue, but Rosalie bared her teeth at 
him and growled, “I’ve already got her.” 

So Bella was stronger now, but the thing was, too. 
You couldn’t starve one without starving the other, 
and healing worked just the same. No way to win. 
Blondie carried Bella swiftly up the big staircase with 
Carlisle and Edward right on her heels, none of them 
taking any notice of me standing dumbstruck in the 



308 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




doorway. So they had a blood bank and an X-ray 
machine? Guess the doc brought his work home with 
him. 

I was too tired to follow them, too tired to move. I 
leaned back against the wall and then slid to the 
ground. The door was still open, and I pointed my 
nose toward it, grateful for the clean breeze blowing 
in. I leaned my head against the jamb and listened. I 
could hear the sound of the X-ray machinery 
upstairs. Or maybe I just assumed that’s what it was. 
And then the lightest of footsteps coming down the 
stairs. I didn’t look to see which vampire it was. 

“Do you want a pillow?” Alice asked me. 

“No,” I mumbled. What was with the pushy 
hospitality? It was creeping me out. 

“That doesn’t look comfortable,” she observed. 

“S’not.” 

“Why don’t you move, then?” 

“Tired. Why aren’t you upstairs with the rest of 
them?” I shot back. 

“Headache,” she answered. 

I rolled my head around to look at her. 

Alice was a tiny little thing. ’Bout the size of one of my 
arms. She looked even smaller now, sort of hunched 
in on herself. Her small face was pinched. 

“Vampires get headaches?” 



309 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Not the normal ones.” 



I snorted. Normal vampires. 

“So how come you’re never with Bella anymore?” I 
asked, making the question an accusation. It hadn’t 
occurred to me before, because my head had been full 
of other crap, but it was weird that Alice was never 
around Bella, not since I’d been here. Maybe if Alice 
were by her side, Rosalie wouldn’t be. “Thought you 
two were like this.” I twisted two of my fingers 
together. 

“Like I said” — she curled up on the tile a few feet from 
me, wrapping her skinny arms around her skinny 
knees — “headache . ” 

“Bella’s giving you a headache?” 

“Yes.” 

I frowned. Pretty sure I was too tired for riddles. I let 
my head roll back around toward the fresh air and 
closed my eyes. 

“Not Bella, really,” she amended. “The... fetus.” 

Ah, someone else who felt like I did. It was pretty easy 
to recognize. She said the word grudgingly, the way 
Edward did. 

“I can’t see it,” she told me, though she might have 
been talking to herself. For all she knew, I was 
already gone. “I can’t see anything about it. Just like 
you.” 



310 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I flinched, and then my teeth ground together. I didn’t 
like being compared to the creature. 

“Bella gets in the way. She’s all wrapped around it, so 
she’s... blurry. Like bad reception on a TV — like trying 
to focus your eyes on those fuzzy people jerking 
around on the screen. It’s killing my head to watch 
her. And I can’t see more than a few minutes ahead, 
anyway. The... fetus is too much a part of her future. 
When she first decided... 

when she knew she wanted it, she blurred right out of 
my sight. Scared me to death.” 

She was quiet for a second, and then she added, “I 
have to admit, it’s a relief having you close by — in 
spite of the wet-dog smell. Everything goes away. Like 
having my eyes closed. It numbs the headache.” 

“Happy to be of service, ma’am,” I mumbled. 

“I wonder what it has in common with you... why 
you’re the same that way.” 

Sudden heat flashed in the center of my bones. I 
clenched my fists to hold off the tremors. 

“I have nothing in common with that life-sucker,” I 
said through my teeth. 

“Well, there’s something there.” 

I didn’t answer. The heat was already burning away. I 
was too dead tired to stay furious. 

“You don’t mind if I sit here by you, do you?” she 
asked. 



311 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Guess not. Stinks anyway.” 

“Thanks,” she said. “This is the best thing for it, I 
guess, since I can’t take aspirin.” 

“Could you keep it down? Sleeping, here.” 

She didn’t respond, immediately lapsing into silence. I 
was out in seconds. I was dreaming that I was really 
thirsty. And there was a big glass of water in front of 
me — all cold, you could see the condensation running 
down the sides. I grabbed the cup and took a huge 
gulp, only to find out pretty quick that it wasn’t 
water — it was straight bleach. I choked it back out, 
spewing it everywhere, and a bunch of it blew out of 
my nose. It burned. My nose was on fire.... 

The pain in my nose woke me up enough to 
remember where I’d fallen asleep. The smell was 
pretty fierce, considering that my nose wasn’t actually 
inside the house. Ugh. And it was noisy. Someone 
was laughing too loud. A familiar laugh, but one that 
didn’t go with the smell. Didn’t belong. 

I groaned and opened my eyes. The skies were dull 
gray — it was daytime, but no clue as to when. Maybe 
close to sunset — it was pretty dark. 

“About time,” Blondie mumbled from not too far away. 
“The chainsaw impersonation was getting a little 
tired.” 

I rolled over and wrenched myself into a sitting 
position. In the process, I figured out where the smell 
was coming from. Someone had stuffed a wide feather 
pillow under my face. Probably trying to be nice, I’d 



312 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




guess. Unless it’d been Rosalie. Once my face was out 
of the stinking feathers, I caught other scents. Like 
bacon and cinnamon, all mixed up with the vampire 
smell. 

I blinked, taking in the room. 

Things hadn’t changed too much, except that now 
Bella was sitting up in the middle of the sofa, and the 
IV was gone. Blondie sat at her feet, her head resting 
against Bella’s knees. Still gave me chills to see how 
casually they touched her, though I guess that was 
pretty brain-dead, all things considered. Edward was 
on one side of her, holding her hand. Alice was on the 
floor, too, like Rosalie. Her face wasn’t pinched up 
now. And it was easy to see why — she’d found another 
painkiller. 

“Hey, Jake’s coming around!” Seth crowed. 

He was sitting on Bella’s other side, his arm slung 
carelessly over her shoulders, an overflowing plate of 
food on his lap. 

What the hell? 

“He came to find you,” Edward said while I got to my 
feet. “And Esme convinced him to stay for breakfast.” 

Seth took in my expression, and he hurried to 
explain. “Yeah, Jake — I was just checking to see if you 
were okay ’cause you didn’t ever phase back. Leah got 
worried. I told her you probably just crashed human, 
but you know how she is. Anyway, they had all this 
food and, dang,” — he turned to Edward — “man, you 
can cook.” 



313 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thank you,” Edward murmured. 

I inhaled slowly, trying to unclench my teeth. I 
couldn’t take my eyes off Seth’s arm. 

“Bella got cold,” Edward said quietly. 

Right. None of my business, anyway. She didn’t 
belong to me. 

Seth heard Edward’s comment, looked at my face, 
and suddenly he needed both hands to eat with. He 
took his arm off Bella and dug in. I walked over to 
stand a few feet from the couch, still trying to get my 
bearings. 

“Leah running patrol?” I asked Seth. My voice was 
still thick with sleep. 

“Yeah,” he said as he chewed. Seth had new clothes 
on, too. They fit him better than mine fit me. “She’s 
on it. No worries. She’ll howl if there’s anything. We 
traded off around midnight. I ran twelve hours.” He 
was proud of that, and it showed in his tone. 

“Midnight? Wait a minute — what time is it now?” 

“T3out dawn.” He glanced toward the window, 
checking. 

Well, damn. I’d slept through the rest of the day and 
the whole night — dropped the ball. 

“Crap. Sorry about that, Seth. Really. You shoulda 
kicked me awake.” 

“Naw, man, you needed some serious sleep. You 
haven’t taken a break since when? 



314 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Night before your last patrol for Sam? Like forty 
hours? Fifty? You’re not a machine, Jake. ’Sides, you 
didn’t miss anything at all.” 

Nothing at all? I glanced quickly at Bella. Her color 
was back to the way I remembered it. Pale, but with 
the rose undertone. Her lips were pink again. Even 
her hair looked better — shinier. She saw me 
appraising and gave me a grin. 

“How’s the rib?” I asked. 

“Taped up nice and tight. I don’t even feel it.” 

I rolled my eyes. I heard Edward grind his teeth 
together, and I figured her blow-it-off attitude bugged 
him as much at it bugged me. 

“What’s for breakfast?” I asked, a little sarcastic. “O 
negative or AB positive?” 

She stuck her tongue out at me. Totally herself again. 
“Omelets,” she said, but her eyes darted down, and I 
saw that her cup of blood was wedged between her leg 
and Edward’s. 

“Go get some breakfast, Jake,” Seth said. “There’s a 
bunch in the kitchen. You’ve got to be empty.” 

I examined the food in his lap. Looked like half a 
cheese omelet and the last fourth of a Frisbee-sized 
cinnamon roll. My stomach growled, but I ignored it. 

“What’s Leah having for breakfast?” I asked Seth 
critically. 



315 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hey, I took food to her before I ate anything,” he 
defended himself. “She said she’d rather eat roadkill, 
but I bet she caves. These cinnamon rolls... ” He 
seemed at a loss for words. 

“I’ll go hunt with her, then.” 

Seth sighed as I turned to leave. 

“A moment, Jacob?” 

It was Carlisle asking, so when I turned around 
again, my face was probably less disrespectful than it 
would have been if anyone else had stopped me. 

“Yeah?” 

Carlisle approached me while Esme drifted off toward 
the other room. He stopped a few feet away, just a 
little bit farther away than the normal space between 
two humans having a conversation. I appreciated him 
giving me my space. 

“Speaking of hunting,” he began in a somber tone. 
“That’s going to be an issue for my family. I 
understand that our previous truce is inoperative at 
the moment, so I wanted your advice. Will Sam be 
hunting for us outside of the perimeter you’ve 
created? We don’t want to take a chance with hurting 
any of your family — or losing any of ours. If you were 
in our shoes, how would you proceed?” 

I leaned away, a little surprised, when he threw it 
back at me like that. What would I know about being 
in a bloodsucker’s expensive shoes? But, then again, I 
did know Sam. 



316 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s a risk,” I said, trying to ignore the other eyes I felt 
on me and to talk only to him. 

“Sam’s calmed down some, but I’m pretty sure that in 
his head, the treaty is void. As long as he thinks the 
tribe, or any other human, is in real danger, he’s not 
going to ask questions first, if you know what I mean. 
But, with all that, his priority is going to be La Push. 
There really aren’t enough of them to keep a decent 
watch on the people while putting out hunting parties 
big enough to do much damage. I’d bet he’s keeping it 
close to home.” 

Carlisle nodded thoughtfully. 

“So I guess I’d say, go out together, just in case. And 
probably you should go in the day, 

’cause we’d be expecting night. Traditional vampire 
stuff. You’re fast — go over the mountains and hunt far 
enough away that there’s no chance he’d send anyone 
that far from home.” 

“And leave Bella behind, unprotected?” 

I snorted. “What are we, chopped liver?” 

Carlisle laughed, and then his face was serious again. 
“Jacob, you can’t fight against your brothers.” 

My eyes tightened. “I’m not saying it wouldn’t be 
hard, but if they were really coming to kill her — I 
would be able to stop them.” 

Carlisle shook his head, anxious. “No, I didn’t mean 
that you would be... incapable. But that it would be 
very wrong. I can’t have that on my conscience.” 



317 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It wouldn’t be on yours, Doc. It would be on mine. 
And I can take it.” 

“No, Jacob. We will make sure that our actions don’t 
make that a necessity.” He frowned thoughtfully 
“Well go three at a time,” he decided after a second. 
“That’s probably the best we can do.” 

“I don’t know, Doc. Dividing down the middle isn’t the 
best strategy.” 

“We’ve got some extra abilities that will even it up. If 
Edward is one of the three, he’ll be able to give us a 
few miles’ radius of safety.” 

We both glanced at Edward. His expression had 
Carlisle backtracking quickly. 

“I’m sure there are other ways, too,” Carlisle said. 
Clearly, there was no physical need strong enough to 
get Edward away from Bella now. “Alice, I would 
imagine you could see which routes would be a 
mistake?” 

“The ones that disappear,” Alice said, nodding. 

“Easy.” 

Edward, who had gone all tense with Carlisle’s first 
plan, loosened up. Bella was staring unhappily at 
Alice, that little crease between her eyes that she got 
when she was stressed out. 

“Okay, then,” I said. “That’s settled. I’ll just be on my 
way. Seth, I’ll expect you back on at dusk, so get a 
nap in there somewhere, all right?” 



318 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sure, Jake. I’ll phase back soon as I’m done. Unless . 

. .’’he hesitated, looking at Bella. 

“Do you need me?” 

“She’s got blankets,” I snapped at him. 

“I’m fine, Seth, thanks,” Bella said quickly. 

And then Esme flitted back in the room, a big covered 
dish in her hands. She stopped hesitantly just behind 
Carlisle’s elbow, her wide, dark gold eyes on my face. 
She held the dish out and took a shy step closer. 

“Jacob,” she said quietly. Her voice wasn’t quite so 
piercing as the others’. “I know it’s... unappetizing to 
you, the idea of eating here, where it smells so 
unpleasant. But I would feel much better if you would 
take some food with you when you go. I know you 
can’t go home, and that’s because of us. Please — ease 
some of my remorse. Take something to eat.” She held 
the food out to me, her face all soft and pleading. I 
don’t know how she did it, because she didn’t look 
older than her mid-twenties, and she was bone pale, 
too, but something about her expression suddenly 
reminded me of my mom. Jeez. 

“Uh, sure, sure,” I mumbled. “I guess. Maybe Leah’s 
still hungry or something.” 

I reached out and took the food with one hand, 
holding it away, at arm’s length. I’d go dump it under 
a tree or something. I didn’t want her to feel bad. 

Then I remembered Edward. 

Don’t you say anything to her! Let her think I ate it. 



319 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t look at him to see if he was in agreement. 

He’d better be in agreement. Bloodsucker owed me. 

“Thank you, Jacob,” Esme said, smiling at me. How 
did a stone face have dimples, for crying out loud? 

“Um, thank you,” I said. My face felt hot — hotter than 
usual. 

This was the problem with hanging out with 
vampires — you got used to them. They started 
messing up the way you saw the world. They started 
feeling like friends. 

“Will you come back later, Jake?” Bella asked as I 
tried to make a run for it. 

“Uh, I don’t know.” 

She pressed her lips together, like she was trying not 
to smile. “Please? I might get cold.” 

I inhaled deeply through my nose, and then realized, 
too late, that that was not a good idea. I winced. 
“Maybe.” 

“Jacob?” Esme asked. I backed toward the door as 
she continued; she took a few steps after me. “I left a 
basket of clothes on the porch. They’re for Leah. 
They’re freshly washed — I tried to touch them as little 
as possible.” She frowned. “Do you mind taking them 
to her?” 

“On it,” I muttered, and then I ducked out the door 
before anyone could guilt me into anything else. 



320 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





TICK TOCK TICK TOCK TICK TOCK 

Hey Jake, thought you said you wanted me at dusk. 
How come you didn’t have Leah wake me up before 
she crashed? 

’Cause I didn’t need you. I’m still good. 

He was already picking up the north half of the circle. 
Anything? 

Nope. Nothing but nothing. 

You did some scouting? 

He’d caught the edge of one of my side trips. He 
headed up the new trail. Yeah — I ran a few spokes. 
You know, just checking. If the Cullens are going to 
make a hunting trip... 

Good call. 

Seth looped back toward the main perimeter. 

It was easier to run with him than it was to do the 
same with Leah. Though she was trying — trying 
hard — there was always an edge to her thoughts. She 
didn’t want to be here. She didn’t want to feel the 
softening toward the vampires that was going on in 
my head. She didn’t want to deal with Seth’s cozy 
friendship with them, a friendship that was only 
getting stronger. 

Funny, though, I’d’ve thought her biggest issue would 
just be me. We’d always gotten on each other’s nerves 

321 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



when we were in Sam’s pack. But there was no 
antagonism toward me now at all, just the Cullens 
and Bella. I wondered why. Maybe it was simply 
gratitude that I wasn’t forcing her to leave. Maybe it 
was because I understood her hostility better now. 
Whichever, running with Leah wasn’t nearly as bad 
as I’d expected. Of course, she hadn’t eased up that 
much. The food and clothes Esme had sent for her 
were all taking a trip downriver right now. Even after 
I’d eaten my share — not because it smelled nearly 
irresistible away from the vampire burn, but to set a 
good example of self-sacrificing tolerance for Leah — 
she’d refused. The small elk she’d taken down around 
noon had not totally satisfied her appetite. Did make 
her mood worse, though. Leah hated eating raw. 

Maybe we should run a sweep east? Seth suggested. 
Go deep, see if they’re out there waiting. 

I was thinking about that, I agreed. But let’s do it 
when we’re all awake. I don’t want to let down our 
guard. We should do it before the Cullens give it a try, 
though. Soon. Right. 

That got me thinking. 

If the Cullens were able to get out of the immediate 
area safely, they really ought to keep on going. They 
probably should have taken off the second we’d come 
to warn them. They had to be able to afford other 
digs. And they had friends up north, right? 

Take Bella and run. It seemed like an obvious answer 
to their problems. I probably ought to suggest that, 
but I was afraid they would listen to me. And I didn’t 
want to have Bella disappear — to never know whether 

322 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




she’d made it or not. No, that was stupid. I would tell 
them to go. It made no sense for them to stay, and it 
would be better — not less painful, but healthier — for 
me if Bella left. Easy to say now, when Bella wasn’t 
right there, looking all thrilled to see me and also 
clinging to life by her fingernails at the same time... 

Oh, I already asked Edward about that, Seth thought. 

What? 

I asked him why they hadn’t taken off yet. Gone up to 
Tanya’s place or something. Somewhere too far for 
Sam to come after them. 

I had to remind myself that I’d just decided to give the 
Cullens that exact advice. That it was best. So I 
shouldn’t be mad at Seth for taking the chore out of 
my hands. Not mad at all. 

So what did he say? Are they waiting for a window? 
No. They’re not leaving. 

And that shouldn’t sound like good news. 

Why not? That’s just stupid. 

Not really, Seth said, defensive now. It takes some 
time to build up the kind of medical access that 
Carlisle has here. He’s got all the stuff he needs to 
take care of Bella, and the credentials to get more. 
That’s one of the reasons they want to make a 
hunting run. Carlisle thinks they’re going to need 
more blood for Bella soon. She’s using up all the O 



323 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




negative they stored for her. He doesn’t like depleting 
the stockpile. He’s going to buy some more. Did you 
know you can buy blood? If you’re a doctor. I wasn’t 
ready to be logical yet. Still seems stupid. They could 
bring most of it with them, right? And steal what they 
need wherever they go. Who cares about legal crap 
when you’re the undead? 

Edward doesn’t want to take any risks moving her. 
She’s better than she was. 

Seriously, Seth agreed. In his head, he was comparing 
my memories of Bella hooked up to the tubes with the 
last time he’d seen her as he’d left the house. She’d 
smiled at him and waved. But she can’t move around 
much, you know. That thing is kicking the hell out of 
her. 

I swallowed back the stomach acid in my throat. 

Yeah, I know. Broke another of her ribs, he told me 
somberly. 

My stride faltered, and I staggered a step before I 
regained my rhythm. Carlisle taped her up again. 

Just another crack, he said. Then Rosalie said 
something about how even normal human babies 
have been known to crack ribs. Edward looked like he 
was gonna rip her head off. 

Too bad he didn’t. 

Seth was in full report mode now — knowing it was all 
vitally interesting to me, though I’d never’ve asked to 
hear it. Bella’s been running a fever off and on today. 
Just low grade — sweats and then chills. Carlisle’s not 



324 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




sure what to make of it — she might just be sick. Her 
immune system can’t be in peak form right now. 

Yeah, I’m sure it’s just a coincidence. 

She’s in a good mood, though. She was chatting with 
Charlie, laughing and all — 

Charlie! What?! What do you mean, she was talking 
to Charlie?! 

Now Seth’s pace stuttered; my fury surprised him. 
Guess he calls every day to talk to her. Sometimes 
her mom calls, too. Bella sounds so much better now, 
so she was reassuring him that she was on the 
mend — 

On the mend ? What the hell are they thinking?! Get 
Charlie’s hopes up just so that he can be destroyed 
even worse when she dies? I thought they were 
getting him ready for that! Trying to prepare him! Why 
would she set him up like this? 

She might not die, Seth thought quietly. 

I took deep breath, trying to calm myself. Seth. Even 
if she pulls through this, she’s not doing it human. 
She knows that, and so do the rest of them. If she 
doesn’t die, she’s going to have to do a pretty 
convincing impersonation of a corpse, kid. Either 
that, or disappear. I thought they were trying to make 
this easier on Charlie. Why... ? 

Think it’s Bella’s idea. No one said anything, but 
Edward’s face kinda went right along with what you’re 
thinking now. 



325 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




On the same wavelength with the bloodsucker yet 
again. 

We ran in silence for a few minutes. I started off along 
a new line, probing south. Don’t get too far. 

Why? 

Bella asked me to ask you to stop by. 

My teeth locked together. 

Alice wants you, too. She says she’s tired of hanging 
out in the attic like the vampire bat in the belfry. Seth 
snorted a laugh. I was switching off with Edward 
before. Trying to keep Bella’s temperature stable. Cold 
to hot, as needed. I guess, if you don’t want to do it, I 
could go back — 

No. I got it, I snapped. 

Okay. Seth didn’t make any more comments. He 
concentrated very hard on the empty forest. 

I kept my southern course, searching for anything 
new. I turned around when I got close to the first 
signs of habitation. Not near the town yet, but I didn’t 
want to get any wolf rumors going again. We’d been 
nice and invisible for a long while now. I passed right 
through the perimeter on my way back, heading for 
the house. As much as I knew it was a stupid thing to 
do, I couldn’t stop myself. I must be some kind of 
masochist. 

There’s nothing wrong with you, Jake. This isn’t the 
most normal situation. Shut up, please, Seth. 



326 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Shutting. 



I didn’t hesitate at the door this time; I just walked 
through like I owned the place. I figured that would 
piss Rosalie off, but it was a wasted effort. Neither 
Rosalie or Bella were anywhere in sight. I looked 
around wildly, hoping I’d missed them somewhere, 
my heart squeezing against my ribs in a weird, 
uncomfortable way. 

“She’s all right,” Edward whispered. “Or, the same, I 
should say.” 

Edward was on the couch with his face in his hands; 
he hadn’t looked up to speak. Esme was next to him, 
her arm wrapped tight around his shoulders. 

“Hello, Jacob,” she said. “I’m so glad you came back.” 

“Me, too,” Alice said with a deep sigh. She came 
prancing down the stairs, making a face. Like I was 
late for an appointment. 

“Uh, hey,” I said. It felt weird to try to be polite. 
“Where’s Bella?” 

“Bathroom,” Alice told me. “Mostly fluid diet, you 
know. Plus, the whole pregnancy thing does that to 
you, I hear.” 

“Ah.” 

I stood there awkwardly, rocking back and forth on 
my heels. 

“Oh, wonderful,” Rosalie grumbled. I whipped my 
head around and saw her coming from a hall half- 



327 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




hidden behind the stairway. She had Bella cradled 
gently in her arms, a harsh sneer on her face for me. 

“I knew I smelled something nasty.” 

And, just like before, Bella’s face lit up like a kid’s on 
Christmas morning. Like I’d brought her the greatest 
gift ever. 

It was so unfair. 

“Jacob,” she breathed. “You came.” 

“Hi, Bells.” 

Esme and Edward both got up. I watched how 
carefully Rosalie laid Bella out on the couch. I 
watched how, despite that, Bella turned white and 
held her breath — like she was set on not making any 
noise no matter how much it hurt. 

Edward brushed his hand across her forehead and 
then along her neck. He tried to make it look as if he 
was just sweeping her hair back, but it looked like a 
doctor’s examination to me. 

“Are you cold?” he murmured. 

“I’m fine.” 

“Bella, you know what Carlisle told you,” Rosalie said. 
“Don’t downplay anything. It doesn’t help us take care 
of either of you.” 

“Okay, I’m a little cold. Edward, can you hand me 
that blanket?” 

I rolled my eyes. “Isn’t that sort of the point of me 
being here?” 

328 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You just walked in,” Bella said. “After running all 
day, I’d bet. Put your feet up for a minute. I’ll 
probably warm up again in no time.” 

I ignored her, going to sit on the floor next the sofa 
while she was still telling me what to do. At that 
point, though, I wasn’t sure how.... She looked pretty 
brittle, and I was afraid to move her, even to put my 
arms around her. So I just leaned carefully against 
her side, letting my arm rest along the length of hers, 
and held her hand. Then I put my other hand against 
her face. It was hard to tell if she felt colder than 
usual. 

“Thanks, Jake,” she said, and I felt her shiver once. 
“Yeah,” I said. 

Edward sat on the arm of the sofa by Bella’s feet, his 
eyes always on her face. It was too much to hope, 
with all the super-hearing in the room, that no one 
would notice my stomach rumbling. 

“Rosalie, why don’t you get Jacob something from the 
kitchen?” Alice said. She was invisible now, sitting 
quietly behind the back of the sofa. 

Rosalie stared at the place Alice’s voice had come 
from in disbelief. 

“Thanks, anyway, Alice, but I don’t think I’d want to 
eat something Blondie’s spit in. I’d bet my system 
wouldn’t take too kindly to venom.” 

“Rosalie would never embarrass Esme by displaying 
such a lack of hospitality.” 



329 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course not,” Blondie said in a sugar-sweet voice 
that I immediately distrusted. She got up and breezed 
out of the room. 

Edward sighed. 

“You’d tell me if she poisoned it, right?” I asked. 

“Yes,” Edward promised. 

And for some reason I believed him. 

There was a lot of banging in the kitchen, and — 
weirdly — the sound of metal protesting as it was 
abused. Edward sighed again, but smiled just a little, 
too. Then Rosalie was back before I could think much 
more about it. With a pleased smirk, she set a silver 
bowl on the floor next to me. 

“Enjoy, mongrel.” 

It had once probably been a big mixing bowl, but 
she’d bent the bowl back in on itself until it was 
shaped almost exactly like a dog dish. I had to be 
impressed with her quick craftsmanship. And her 
attention to detail. She’d scratched the word Fido into 
the side. Excellent handwriting. 

Because the food looked pretty good — steak, no less, 
and a big baked potato with all the fixings — I told her, 
“Thanks, Blondie.” 

She snorted. 

“Hey, do you know what you call a blonde with a 
brain?” I asked, and then continued on the same 
breath, “a golden retriever.” 



330 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ve heard that one, too,” she said, no longer smiling. 

“I’ll keep trying,” I promised, and then I dug in. 

She made a disgusted face and rolled her eyes. Then 
she sat in one of the armchairs and started flicking 
through channels on the big TV so fast that there was 
no way she could really be surfing for something to 
watch. 

The food was good, even with the vampire stink in the 
air. I was getting really used to that. Huh. Not 
something I’d been wanting to do, exactly... 

When I was finished — though I was considering 
licking the bowl, just to give Rosalie something to 
complain about — I felt Bella’s cold fingers pulling 
softly through my hair. She patted it down against the 
back of my neck. 

“Time for a haircut, huh?” 

“You’re getting a little shaggy,” she said. “Maybe — ” 

“Let me guess, someone around here used to cut hair 
in a salon in Paris?” 

She chuckled. “Probably.” 

“No thanks,” I said before she could really offer. “I’m 
good for a few more weeks.” 

Which made me wonder how long she was good for. I 
tried to think of a polite way to ask. 

“So... um... what’s the, er, date? You know, the due 
date for the little monster.” 



331 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She smacked the back of my head with about as 
much force as a drifting feather, but didn’t answer. 

“I’m serious,” I told her. “I want to know how long I’m 
gonna have to be here.” How long you’re gonna be 
here, I added in my head. I turned to look at her then. 
Her eyes were thoughtful; the stress line was there 
between her brows again. 

“I don’t know,” she murmured. “Not exactly. 

Obviously, we’re not going with the ninemonth model 
here, and we can’t get an ultrasound, so Carlisle is 
guesstimating from how big I am. Normal people are 
supposed to be about forty centimeters here” — she 
ran her finger right down the middle of her bulging 
stomach — “when the baby is fully grown. One 
centimeter for every week. I was thirty this morning, 
and I’ve been gaining about two centimeters a day, 
sometimes more. ...” 

Two weeks to a day, the days flying by. Her life 
speeding by in fast-forward. How many days did that 
give her, if she was counting to forty? Four? It took 
me a minute to figure out how to swallow. 

“You okay?” she asked. 

I nodded, not really sure how my voice would come 
out. 

Edward’s face was turned away from us as he listened 
to my thoughts, but I could see his reflection in the 
glass wall. He was the burning man again. Funny 
how having a deadline made it harder to think about 
leaving, or having her leave. I was glad Seth’d brought 
that up, so I knew they were staying here. It would be 



332 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




intolerable, wondering if they were about to go, to 
take away one or two or three of those four days. My 
four days. 

Also funny how, even knowing that it was almost 
over, the hold she had on me only got harder to 
break. Almost like it was related to her expanding 
belly — as if by getting bigger, she was gaining 
gravitational force. 

For a minute I tried to look at her from a distance, to 
separate myself from the pull. I knew it wasn’t my 
imagination that my need for her was stronger than 
ever. Why was that? Because she was dying? Or 
knowing that even if she didn’t, still — best case 
scenario — she’d be changing into something else that 
I wouldn’t know or understand? 

She ran her finger across my cheekbone, and my skin 
was wet where she touched it. 

“It’s going to be okay,” she sort of crooned. It didn’t 
matter that the words meant nothing. She said it the 
way people sang those senseless nursery rhymes to 
kids. Rocka-bye, baby. 

“Right,” I muttered. 

She curled against my arm, resting her head on my 
shoulder. “I didn’t think you would come. Seth said 
you would, and so did Edward, but I didn’t believe 
them.” 

“Why not?” I asked gruffly. 

“You’re not happy here. But you came anyway.” 



333 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You wanted me here.” 



“I know. But you didn’t have to come, because it’s not 
fair for me to want you here. I would have 
understood.” 

It was quiet for a minute. Edward ’d put his face back 
together. He looked at the TV as Rosalie went on 
flipping through the channels. She was into the six 
hundreds. I wondered how long it would take to get 
back to the beginning. 

“Thank you for coming,” Bella whispered. 

“Can I ask you something?” I asked. 

“Of course.” 

Edward didn’t look like he was paying attention to us 
at all, but he knew what I was about to ask, so he 
didn’t fool me. 

“Why do you want me here? Seth could keep you 
warm, and he’s probably easier to be around, happy 
little punk. But when I walk in the door, you smile 
like I’m your favorite person in the world.” 

“You’re one of them.” 

“That sucks, you know.” 

“Yeah.” She sighed. “Sorry.” 

“Why, though? You didn’t answer that.” 

Edward was looking away again, like he was staring 
out the windows. His face was blank in the reflection. 



334 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It feels... complete when you’re here, Jacob. Like all 
my family is together. I mean, I guess that’s what it’s 
like — I’ve never had a big family before now. It’s nice.” 
She smiled for half a second. “But it’s just not whole 
unless you’re here.” 

“I’ll never be part of your family, Bella.” 

I could have been. I would have been good there. But 
that was just a distant future that died long before it 
had a chance to live. 

“You’ve always been a part of my family,” she 
disagreed. 

My teeth made a grinding sound. “That’s a crap 
answer.” 

“What’s a good one?” 

“How about, ‘Jacob, I get a kick out of your pain.’” 

I felt her flinch. 

“You’d like that better?” she whispered. 

“It’s easier, at least. I could wrap my head around it. I 
could deal with it.” 

I looked back down at her face then, so close to mine. 
Her eyes were shut and she was frowning. “We got off 
track, Jake. Out of balance. You’re supposed to be 
part of my life 

— I can feel that, and so can you.” She paused for a 
second without opening her eyes — 



335 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




like she was waiting for me to deny it. When I didn’t 
say anything, she went on. “But not like this. We did 
something wrong. No. I did. I did something wrong, 
and we got off track. ...” 

Her voice trailed off, and the frown on her face relaxed 
until it was just a little pucker at the corner of her 
lips. I waited for her to pour some more lemon juice 
into my paper cuts, but then a soft snore came from 
the back of her throat. 

“She’s exhausted,” Edward murmured. “It’s been a 
long day. A hard day. I think she would have gone to 
sleep earlier, but she was waiting for you.” 

I didn’t look at him. 

“Seth said it broke another of her ribs.” 

“Yes. It’s making it hard for her to breathe.” 

“Great.” 

“Let me know when she gets hot again.” 

“Yeah.” 

She still had goose bumps on the arm that wasn’t 
touching mine. I’d barely raised my head to look for a 
blanket when Edward snagged one draped over the 
arm of the sofa and flung it out so that it settled over 
her. 

Occasionally, the mind-reading thing saved time. For 
example, maybe I wouldn’t have to make a big 
production out of the accusation about what was 



336 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




going on with Charlie. That mess. Edward would just 
hear exactly how furious — 

“Yes,” he agreed. “It’s not a good idea.” 

“Then why?” Why was Bella telling her father she was 
on the mend when it would only make him more 
miserable? 

“She can’t bear his anxiety.” 

“So it’s better—” 

“No. It’s not better. But I’m not going to force her to 
do anything that makes her unhappy now. Whatever 
happens, this makes her feel better. I’ll deal with the 
rest afterward.” 

That didn’t sound right. Bella wouldn’t just shuffle 
Charlie’s pain off to some later date, for someone else 
to face. Even dying. That wasn’t her. If I knew Bella, 
she had to have some other plan. 

“She’s very sure she’s going to live,” Edward said. 

“But not human,” I protested. 

“No, not human. But she hopes to see Charlie again, 
anyway.” 

Oh, this just got better and better. 

“See. Charlie.” I finally looked at him, my eyes 
bugging. “Afterwards. See Charlie when she’s all 
sparkly white with the bright red eyes. I’m not a 
bloodsucker, so maybe I’m missing something, but 
Charlie seems like kind of a strange choice for her 
first meal.” 



337 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward sighed. “She knows she won’t be able to be 
near him for at least a year. She thinks she can stall. 
Tell Charlie she has to go to a special hospital on the 
other side of the world. Keep in contact through 
phone calls. ...” 

“That’s insane.” 

“Yes.” 

“Charlie’s not stupid. Even if she doesn’t kill him, he’s 
going to notice a difference.” 

“She’s sort of banking on that.” 

I continued to stare, waiting for him to explain. 

“She wouldn’t be aging, of course, so that would set a 
time limit, even if Charlie accepted whatever excuse 
she comes up with for the changes.” He smiled 
faintly. “Do you remember when you tried to tell her 
about your transformation? How you made her 
guess?” 

My free hand flexed into a fist. “She told you about 
that?” 

“Yes. She was explaining her... idea. You see, she’s 
not allowed to tell Charlie the truth 

— it would be very dangerous for him. But he’s a 
smart, practical man. She thinks he’ll come up with 
his own explanation. She assumes he’ll get it wrong.” 
Edward snorted. 

“After all, we hardly adhere to vampire canon. He’ll 
make some wrong assumption about us, like she did 



338 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




in the beginning, and well go along with it. She 
thinks shell be able to see him... from time to time.” 

“Insane,” I repeated. 

“Yes,” he agreed again. 

It was weak of him to let her get her way on this, just 
to keep her happy now. It wouldn’t turn out well. 

Which made me think that he probably wasn’t 
expecting her to live to try out her crazy plan. 
Placating her, so that she could be happy for a little 
while longer. Like four more days. 

“I’ll deal with whatever comes,” he whispered, and he 
turned his face down and away so that I couldn’t even 
read his reflection. “I won’t cause her pain now.” 

“Four days?” I asked. 

He didn’t look up. “Approximately.” 

“Then what?” 

“What do you mean, exactly?” 

I thought about what Bella had said. About the thing 
being wrapped up nice and tight in something strong, 
something like vampire skin. So how did that work? 
How did it get out? 

“From what little research we’ve been able to do, it 
would appear the creatures use their own teeth to 
escape the womb,” he whispered. 

I had to pause to swallow back the bile. 

“Research?” I asked weakly. 

339 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s why you haven’t seen Jasper and Emmett 
around. That’s what Carlisle is doing now. Trying to 
decipher ancient stories and myths, as much as we 
can with what we have to work with here, looking for 
anything that might help us predict the creature’s 
behavior.” 

Stories? If there were myths, then... 

“Then is this thing not the first of its kind?” Edward 
asked, anticipating my question. 

“Maybe. It’s all very sketchy. The myths could easily 
be the products of fear and imagination. Though . . 

.” — he hesitated — “your myths are true, are they not? 
Perhaps these are, too. They do seem to be localized, 
linked ” 

“How did you find... ?” 

“There was a woman we encountered in South 
America. She’d been raised in the traditions of her 
people. She’d heard warnings about such creatures, 
old stories that had been passed down.” 

“What were the warnings?” I whispered. 

“That the creature must be killed immediately. Before 
it could gain too much strength.” 

Just like Sam thought. Was he right? 

“Of course, their legends say the same of us. That we 
must be destroyed. That we are soulless murderers.” 

Two for two. 



Edward laughed one hard chuckle. 

340 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What did their stories say about the... mothers?” 



Agony ripped across his face, and, as I flinched away 
from his pain, I knew he wasn’t going to give me an 
answer. I doubted he could talk. 

It was Rosalie — who’d been so still and quiet since 
Bella’d fallen asleep that I’d nearly forgotten her — who 
answered. 

She made a scornful noise in the back of her throat. 
“Of course there were no survivors,” she said. No 
survivors, blunt and uncaring. “Giving birth in the 
middle of a disease-infested swamp with a medicine 
man smearing sloth spit across your face to drive out 
the evil spirits was never the safest method. Even the 
normal births went badly half the time. None of them 
had what this baby has — caregivers with an idea of 
what the baby needs, who try to meet those needs. A 
doctor with a totally unique knowledge of vampire 
nature. A plan in place to deliver the baby as safely as 
possible. Venom that will repair anything that goes 
wrong. The baby will be fine. And those other mothers 
would probably have survived if they’d had that — if 
they even existed in the first place. Something I am 
not convinced of.” She sniffed disdainfully. 

The baby, the baby. Like that was all that mattered. 
Bella’s life was a minor detail to her 

— easy to blow off. 

Edward’s face went white as snow. His hands curved 
into claws. Totally egotistical and indifferent, Rosalie 
twisted in her chair so that her back was to him. He 
leaned forward, shifting into a crouch. 

341 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Allow me, I suggested. 

He paused, raising one eyebrow. 

Silently, I lifted my doggy bowl off the floor. Then, 
with a quick, powerful flip of my wrist, I threw it into 
the back of Blondie’s head so hard that — with an 
earsplitting bang 

— it smashed flat before it ricocheted across the room 
and snapped the round top piece off the thick newel 
post at the foot of the stairs. 

Bella twitched but didn’t wake up. 

“Dumb blonde,” I muttered. 

Rosalie turned her head slowly, and her eyes were 
blazing. 

“You. Got. Food. In. My. Hair.” 

That did it. 

I busted up. I pulled away from Bella so that I 
wouldn’t shake her, and laughed so hard that tears 
ran down my face. From behind the couch, I heard 
Alice’s tinkling laugh join in. 

I wondered why Rosalie didn’t spring. I sort of 
expected it. But then I realized that my laughing had 
woken Bella up, though she’d slept right through the 
real noise. 

“What’s so funny?” she mumbled. 

“I got food in her hair,” I told her, chortling again. 

“I’m not going to forget this, dog,” Rosalie hissed. 

342 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“S’not so hard to erase a blonde’s memory,” I 
countered. “Just blow in her ear.” 

“Get some new jokes,” she snapped. 

“C’mon, Jake. Leave Rose alo — ” Bella broke off mid- 
sentence and sucked in a sharp breath. In the same 
second, Edward was leaning over the top of me, 
ripping the blanket out of the way. She seemed to 
convulse, her back arching off the sofa. 

“He’s just,” she panted, “stretching.” 

Her lips were white, and she had her teeth locked 
together like she was trying to hold back a scream. 

Edward put both hands on either side of her face. 

“Carlisle?” he called in a tense, low voice. 

“Right here,” the doctor said. I hadn’t heard him come 
in. 



“Okay,” Bella said, still breathing hard and shallow. 
“Think it’s over. Poor kid doesn’t have enough room, 
that’s all. He’s getting so big.” 

It was really hard to take, that adoring tone she used 
to describe the thing that was tearing her up. 
Especially after Rosalie’s callousness. Made me wish I 
could throw something at Bella, too. 

She didn’t pick up on my mood. “You know, he 
reminds me of you, Jake,” she said — 

affectionate tone — still gasping. 



343 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do not compare me to that thing,” I spit out through 
my teeth. 

“I just meant your growth spurt,” she said, looking 
like I’d hurt her feelings. Good. 

“You shot right up. I could watch you getting taller by 
the minute. He’s like that, too. Growing so fast.” 

I bit my tongue to keep from saying what I wanted to 
say — hard enough that I tasted blood in my mouth. Of 
course, it would heal before I could swallow. That’s 
what Bella needed. To be strong like me, to be able to 
heal.... 

She took an easier breath and then relaxed back into 
the sofa, her body going limp. 

“Hmm,” Carlisle murmured. I looked up, and his eyes 
were on me. 

“What?” I demanded. 

Edward’s head leaned to one side as he reflected on 
whatever was in Carlisle’s head. 

“You know that I was wondering about the fetus’s 
genetic makeup, Jacob. About his chromosomes.” 

“What of it?” 

“Well, taking your similarities into consideration — ” 

“Similari ties?” I growled, not appreciating the plural. 

“The accelerated growth, and the fact that Alice 
cannot see either of you.” 



344 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt my face go blank. I’d forgotten about that other 
one. 

“Well, I wonder if that means that we have an answer. 
If the similarities are gene-deep.” 

“Twenty-four pairs,” Edward muttered under his 
breath. 

“You don’t know that.” 

“No. But it’s interesting to speculate,” Carlisle said in 
a soothing voice. 

“Yeah. Just fascinating.” 

Bella’s light snore started up again, accenting my 
sarcasm nicely. They got into it then, quickly taking 
the genetics conversation to a point where the only 
words I could understand were the the’s and the 
and’s. And my own name, of course. Alice joined in, 
commenting now and then in her chirpy bird voice. 
Even though they were talking about me, I didn’t try 
to figure out the conclusions they were drawing. I had 
other things on my mind, a few facts I was trying to 
reconcile. Fact one, Bella’d said that the creature was 
protected by something as strong as vampire skin, 
something that was too impenetrable for ultrasounds, 
too tough for needles. Fact two, Rosalie ’d said they 
had a plan to deliver the creature safely. Fact three, 
Edward’d said that — in myths — other monsters like 
this one would chew their way out of their own 
mothers. 

I shuddered. 



345 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




And that made a sick kind of sense, because, fact 
four, not many things could cut through something 
as strong as vampire skin. The half-creature’s teeth — 
according to myth — were strong enough. My teeth 
were strong enough. 

And vampire teeth were strong enough. 

It was hard to miss the obvious, but I sure wished I 
could. Because I had a pretty good idea exactly how 
Rosalie planned to get that thing “safely” out. 



346 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




l6 

TOO-MUCH-INFORMATION ALERT 

I took off early, long before sunrise was due. I’d gotten 
just a little bit of uneasy sleep leaning against the 
side of the sofa. Edward woke me when Bella’s face 
was flushed, and he took my spot to cool her back 
down. I stretched and decided I was rested enough to 
get some work done. 

“Thank you,” Edward said quietly, seeing my plans. 

“If the route is clear, they’ll go today.” 

“I’ll let you know.” 

It felt good to get back to my animal self. I was stiff 
from sitting still for so long. I extended my stride, 
working out the kinks. 

Morning, Jacob, Leah greeted me. 

Good, you’re up. How long’s Seth been out? 

Not out yet, Seth thought sleepily. Almost there. What 
do you need? 

You think you got another hour in you? 

Sure thing. No problem. Seth got to his feet right 
away, shaking out his fur. Let’s make the deep run, I 
told Leah. Seth, take the perimeter. Gotcha. Seth 
broke into an easy jog. 

Off on another vampire errand, Leah grumbled. 

You got a problem with that? 



347 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



Of course not. I just love to coddle those darling 
leeches. Good. Let’s see how fast we can run. 

Okay, I’m definitely up for that ! 

Leah was on the far western rim of the perimeter. 
Rather than cut close to the Cullens’ 

house, she stuck to the circle as she raced around to 
meet me. I sprinted off straight east, knowing that 
even with the head start, she’d be passing me soon if I 
took it easy for even a second. 

Nose to the ground, Leah. This isn’t a race, it’s a 
reconnaissance mission. I can do both and still kick 
your butt. 

I gave her that one. I know. 

She laughed. 

We took a winding path through the eastern 
mountains. It was a familiar route. We’d run these 
mountains when the vampires had left a year ago, 
making it part of our patrol route to better protect the 
people here. Then we’d pulled back the lines when the 
Cullens returned. This was their treaty land. 

But that fact would probably mean nothing to Sam 
now. The treaty was dead. The question today was 
how thin he was willing to spread his force. Was he 
looking for stray Cullens to poach on their land or 
not? Had Jared spoken the truth or taken advantage 
of the silence between us? 

We got deeper and deeper into the mountains without 
finding any trace of the pack. Fading vampire trails 



348 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




were everywhere, but the scents were familiar now. I 
was breathing them in all day long. 

I found a heavy, somewhat recent concentration on 
one particular trail — all of them coming and going 
here except for Edward. Some reason for gathering 
that must have been forgotten when Edward brought 
his dying pregnant wife home. I gritted my teeth. 
Whatever it was, it had nothing to do with me. 

Leah didn’t push herself past me, though she could 
have now. I was paying more attention to each new 
scent than I was to the speed contest. She kept to my 
right side, running with me rather than racing 
against me. 

We’re getting pretty far out here, she commented. 

Yeah. If Sam was hunting strays, we should have 
crossed his trail by now. Makes more sense right now 
for him to bunker down in La Push, Leah thought. He 
knows we’re giving the bloodsuckers three extra sets 
of eyes and legs. He’s not going to be able to surprise 
them. 

This was just a precaution, really. 

Wouldn’t want our precious parasites taking 
unnecessary chances. Nope, I agreed, ignoring the 
sarcasm. 

You’ve changed so much, Jacob. Talk about one- 
eighties. 

You’re not exactly the same Leah I’ve always known 
and loved, either. True. Am I less annoying than Paul 
now? 

349 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Amazingly... yes. 

Ah, sweet success. 

Congrats. 

We ran in silence again then. It was probably time to 
turn around, but neither of us wanted to. It felt nice 
to run like this. We’d been staring at the same small 
circle of a trail for too long. It felt good to stretch our 
muscles and take the rugged terrain. We weren’t in a 
huge hurry, so I thought maybe we should hunt on 
the way back. Leah was pretty hungry. 

Yum, yum, she thought sourly. 

It’s all in your head, I told her. That’s the way wolves 
eat. It’s natural. It tastes fine. If you didn’t think 
about it from a human perspective — 

Forget the pep talk, Jacob. I’ll hunt. I don’t have to 
like it. Sure, sure, I agreed easily. It wasn’t my 
business if she wanted to make things harder for 
herself. 

She didn’t add anything for a few minutes; I started 
thinking about turning back. Thank you, Leah 
suddenly told me in a much different tone. For? 

For letting me be. For letting me stay. You’ve been 
nicer than I had any right to expect, Jacob. 

Er, no problem. Actually, I mean that. I don’t mind 
having you here like I thought I would. 

She snorted, but it was a playful sound. What a 
glowing commendation! 



350 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Don’t let it go to your head. 



Okay — if you don’t let this go to yours. She paused for 
a second. I think you make a good Alpha. Not in the 
same way Sam does, but in your own way. You’re 
worth following, Jacob. 

My mind went blank with surprise. It took me a 
second to recover enough to respond. Er, thanks. Not 
totally sure I’ll be able to stop that one from going to 
my head, though. Where did that come from? 

She didn’t answer right away, and I followed the 
wordless direction of her thoughts. She was thinking 
about the future — about what I’d said to Jared the 
other morning. About how the time would be up soon, 
and then I’d go back to the forest. About how I’d 
promised that she and Seth would return to the pack 
when the Cullens were gone. ... I want to stay with 
you, she told me. 

The shock shot through my legs, locking my joints. 
She blew past me and then put on the brakes. Slowly, 
she walked back to where I was frozen in place. I 
won’t be a pain, I swear. I won’t follow you around. 
You can go wherever you want, and I’ll go where I 
want. You 11 only have to put up with me when we’re 
both wolves. She paced back and forth in front of me, 
swishing her long gray tail nervously. And, as I’m 
planning on quitting as soon as I can manage it... 
maybe that won’t be so often. I didn’t know what to 
say. 

I’m happier now, as a part of your pack, than I have 
been in years. I want to stay, too, Seth thought 
quietly. I hadn’t realized he’d been paying much 

351 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




attention to us as he ran the perimeter. I like this 
pack. 

Hey, now! Seth, this isn’t going to be a pack much 
longer. I tried to put my thoughts together so they 
would convince him. We’ve got a purpose now, but 
when... after that’s over, I’m just going to go wolf. 

Seth, you need a purpose. You’re a good kid. You’re 
the kind of person who always has a crusade. And 
there’s no way you’re leaving La Push now. You’re 
going to graduate from high school and do something 
with your life. You’re going to take care of Sue. My 
issues are not going to mess up your future. But — 

Jacob is right, Leah seconded. 

You’re agreeing with me? 

Of course. But none of that applies to me . I was on 
my way out, anyway. I’ll get a job somewhere away 
from La Push. Maybe take some courses at a 
community college. Get into yoga and meditation to 
work on my temper issues.... And stay a part of this 
pack for the sake of my mental well-being. Jacob — 
you can see how that makes sense, right? 

I won’t bother you, you won’t bother me, everyone is 
happy. I turned back and started loping slowly toward 
the west. 

This is a bit much to deal with, Leah. Let me think 
about it, ’kay? 

Sure. Take your time. 

It took us longer to make the run back. I wasn’t trying 
for speed. I was just trying to concentrate enough 

352 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




that I wouldn’t plow headfirst into a tree. Seth was 
grumbling a little bit in the back of my head, but I 
was able to ignore him. He knew I was right. He 
wasn’t going to abandon his mom. He would go back 
to La Push and protect the tribe like he should. 

But I couldn’t see Leah doing that. And that was just 
plain scary. A pack of the two of us? No matter the 
physical distance, I couldn’t imagine the... the 
intimacy of that situation. I wondered if she’d really 
thought it through, or if she was just desperate to 
stay free. 

Leah didn’t say anything as I chewed it over. It was 
like she was trying to prove how easy it would be if it 
was just us. 

We ran into a herd of black-tailed deer just as the sun 
was coming up, brightening the clouds a little bit 
behind us. Leah sighed internally but didn’t hesitate. 
Her lunge was clean and efficient — graceful, even. She 
took down the largest one, the buck, before the 
startled animal fully understood the danger. 

Not to be outdone, I swooped down on the next 
largest deer, snapping her neck between my jaws 
quickly, so she wouldn’t feel unnecessary pain. I 
could feel Leah’s disgust warring with her hunger, 
and I tried to make it easier for her by letting the wolf 
in me have my head. I’d lived all- wolf for long enough 
that I knew how to be the animal completely, to see 
his way and think his way. I let the practical instincts 
take over, letting her feel that, too. She hesitated for a 
second, but then, tentatively, she seemed to reach out 
with her mind and try to see my way. It felt very 



353 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




strange — our minds were more closely linked than 
they had ever been before, because we both were 
trying to think together. 

Strange, but it helped her. Her teeth cut through the 
fur and skin of her kill’s shoulder, tearing away a 
thick slab of streaming flesh. Rather than wince away 
as her human thoughts wanted to, she let her wolf- 
self react instinctively. It was kind of a numbing 
thing, a thoughtless thing. It let her eat in peace. 

It was easy for me to do the same. And I was glad I 
hadn’t forgotten this. This would be my life again 
soon. 

Was Leah going to be a part of that life? A week ago, I 
would’ve found that idea beyond horrifying. I 
wouldn’t’ve been able to stand it. But I knew her 
better now. And, relieved from the constant pain, she 
wasn’t the same wolf. Not the same girl. We ate 
together until we both were full. 

Thanks, she told me later as she was cleaning her 
muzzle and paws against the wet grass. I didn’t 
bother; it had just started to drizzle and we had to 
swim the river again on our way back. I’d get clean 
enough. That wasn’t so bad, thinking your way. 

You’re welcome. 

Seth was dragging when we hit the perimeter. I told 
him to get some sleep; Leah and I would take over the 
patrol. Seth’s mind faded into unconsciousness just 
seconds later. You headed back to the bloodsuckers? 
Leah asked. 



Maybe. 

354 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It’s hard for you to be there, but hard to stay away, 
too. I know how that feels. You know, Leah, you 
might want to think a little bit about the future, 
about what you really want to do. My head is not 
going to be the happiest place on earth. And youll 
have to suffer right along with me. 

She thought about how to answer me. Wow, this is 
going to sound bad. But, honestly, it will be easier to 
deal with your pain than face mine. 

Fair enough. 

I know it’s going to be bad for you, Jacob. I 
understand that — maybe better than you think. I 
don’t like her, but... she’s your Sam. She’s everything 
you want and everything you can’t have. 

I couldn’t answer. 

I know it’s worse for you. At least Sam is happy. At 
least he’s alive and well. I love him enough that I want 
that. I want him to have what’s best for him. She 
sighed. I just don’t want to stick around to watch. 

Do we need to talk about this? 

I think we do. Because I want you to know that I 
won’t make it worse for you. Hell, maybe I’ll even 
help. I wasn’t born a compassionless shrew. I used to 
be sort of nice, you know. 

My memory doesn’t go that far back. 

We both laughed once. 



355 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’m sorry about this, Jacob. I’m sorry you’re in pain. 
I’m sorry it’s getting worse and not better. 

Thanks, Leah. 

She thought about the things that were worse, the 
black pictures in my head, while I tried to tune her 
out without much success. She was able to look at 
them with some distance, some perspective, and I had 
to admit that this was helpful. I could imagine that 
maybe I would be able to see it that way, too, in a few 
years. 

She saw the funny side of the daily irritations that 
came from hanging out around vampires. She liked 
my ragging on Rosalie, chuckling internally and even 
running through a few blonde jokes in her mind that I 
might be able to work in. But then her thoughts 
turned serious, lingering on Rosalie’s face in a way 
that confused me. You know what’s crazy? she asked. 

Well, almost everything is crazy right now. But what 
do you mean? 

That blond vampire you hate so much — I totally get 
her perspective. For a second I thought she was 
making a joke that was in very poor taste. And then, 
when I realized she was serious, the fury that ripped 
through me was hard to control. It was a good thing 
we’d spread out to run our watch. If she’d been within 
biting distance... 

Hold up! Let me explain! 

Don’t want to hear it. I’m outta here. 



356 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Wait! Wait! she pleaded as I tried to calm myself 
enough to phase back. C’mon, Jake! 

Leah, this isn’t really the best way to convince me 
that I want to spend more time with you in the future. 

Yeesh! What an overreaction. You don’t even know 
what I’m talking about. So what are you talking 
about? 

And then she was suddenly the pain-hardened Leah 
from before. I’m talking about being a genetic dead 
end, Jacob. 

The vicious edge to her words left me floundering. I 
hadn’t expected to have my anger trumped. 

I don’t understand. 

You would , if you weren’t just like the rest of them. If 
my “female stuff’ — she thought the words with a 
hard, sarcastic tone — didn’t send you running for 
cover just like any stupid male, so you could actually 
pay attention to what it all means. Oh. 

Yeah, so none of us like to think about that stuff with 
her. Who would? Of course I remembered Leah’s 
panic that first month after she joined the pack — and 
I remembered cringing away from it just like everyone 
else. Because she couldn’t be pregnant — not unless 
there was some really freaky religious immaculate 
crap going on. She hadn’t been with anyone since 
Sam. And then, when the weeks dragged on and 
nothing turned into more nothing, she’d realized that 
her body wasn’t following the normal patterns 
anymore. The horror — what was she now? Had her 



357 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




body changed because she’d become a werewolf? Or 
had she become a werewolf because her body was 
wrong? The only female werewolf in the history of 
forever. Was that because she wasn’t as female as she 
should be? 

None of us had wanted to deal with that breakdown. 
Obviously, it wasn’t like we could empathize. 

You know why Sam thinks we imprint, she thought, 
calmer now. Sure. To carry on the line. 

Right. To make a bunch of new little werewolves. 
Survival of the species, genetic override. You’re drawn 
to the person who gives you the best chance to pass 
on the wolf gene. 

I waited for her to tell me where she was going with 
this. 

If I was any good for that, Sam would have been 
drawn to me . Her pain was enough that I broke 
stride under it. 

But I’m not. There’s something wrong with me. I don’t 
have the ability to pass on the gene, apparently, 
despite my stellar bloodlines. So I become a freak — 
the girlie-wolf — 

good for nothing else. I’m a genetic dead end and we 
both know it. We do not, I argued with her. That’s 
just Sam’s theory. Imprinting happens, but we don’t 
know why. Billy thinks it’s something else. 

I know, I know. He thinks you’re imprinting to make 
stronger wolves. Because you and Sam are such 
humongous monsters — bigger than our fathers. But 

358 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




either way, I’m still not a candidate. I’m... I’m 
menopausal. I’m twenty years old and I’m 
menopausal. Ugh. I so didn’t want to have this 
conversation. You don’t know that, Leah. It’s probably 
just the whole frozen-in-time thing. When you quit 
your wolf and start getting older again, I’m sure 
things will... er... pick right back up. 

I might think that — except that no one’s imprinting on 
me , notwithstanding my impressive pedigree. You 
know, she added thoughtfully, if you weren’t around, 
Seth would probably have the best claim to being 
Alpha — through his blood, at least. Of course, no one 
would ever consider me. . . . 

You really want to imprint, or be imprinted on, or 
whichever? I demanded. What’s wrong with going out 
and falling in love like a normal person, Leah? 
Imprinting is just another way of getting your choices 
taken away from you. 

Sam, Jared, Paul, Quil... they don’t seem to mind. 
None of them have a mind of their own. 

You don’t want to imprint? 

Hell, no! 

That’s just because you’re already in love with her . 
That would go away, you know, if you imprinted. You 
wouldn’t have to hurt over her anymore. 

Do you want to forget the way you feel about Sam? 

She deliberated for a moment. I think I do. 



359 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I sighed. She was in a healthier place than I was. 

But back to my original point, Jacob. I understand 
why your blond vampire is so cold — 

in the figurative sense. She’s focused. She’s got her 
eyes on the prize, right? Because you always want the 
very most what you can never, ever have. You would 
act like Rosalie? You would murder someone — 
because that’s what she’s doing, making sure no one 
interferes with Bella’s death — you would do that to 
have a baby? Since when are you a breeder? 

I just want the options I don’t have, Jacob. Maybe, if 
there was nothing wrong with me, I would never give 
it a thought. 

You would kill for that? I demanded, not letting her 
escape my question. That’s not what she’s doing. I 
think it’s more like she’s living vicariously. And... if 
Bella asked me to help her with this... She paused, 
considering. Even though I don’t think too much of 
her, I’d probably do the same as the bloodsucker. 

A loud snarl ripped through my teeth. 

Because, if it was turned around, I’d want Bella to do 
that for me. And so would Rosalie. We’d both do it her 
way. 

Ugh! You’re as bad as they are! 

That’s the funny thing about knowing you can’t have 
something. It makes you desperate. And... that’s my 
limit. Right there. This conversation is over. Fine. 



360 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It wasn’t enough that she’d agreed to stop. I wanted a 
stronger termination than that. I was only about a 
mile from where I’d left my clothes, so I phased back 
to human and walked. I didn’t think about our 
conversation. Not because there wasn’t anything to 
think about, but because I couldn’t stand it. I would 
not see it that way — but it was harder to keep from 
doing that when Leah had put the thoughts and 
emotions straight into my head. 

Yeah, I wasn’t running with her when this was 
finished. She could go be miserable in La Push. One 
little Alpha command before I left for good wasn’t 
going to kill anybody. It was real early when I got to 
the house. Bella was probably still asleep. I figured I’d 
poke my head in, see what was going on, give ’em the 
green light to go hunting, and then find a patch of 
grass soft enough to sleep on while human. I wasn’t 
phasing back until Leah was asleep. 

But there was a lot of low mumbling going on inside 
the house, so maybe Bella wasn’t sleeping. And then I 
heard the machinery sound from upstairs again — the 
X-ray? Great. It looked like day four on the 
countdown was starting off with a bang. Alice opened 
the door for me before I could walk in. 

She nodded. “Hey, wolf.” 

“Hey, shortie. What’s going on upstairs?” The big 
room was empty — all the murmurs were on the 
second floor. 

She shrugged her pointy little shoulders. “Maybe 
another break.” She tried to say the words casually, 
but I could see the flames in the very back of her 

361 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




eyes. Edward and I weren’t the only ones who were 
burning over this. Alice loved Bella, too. 



“Another rib?” I asked hoarsely. 

“No. Pelvis this time.” 

Funny how it kept hitting me, like each new thing 
was a surprise. When was I going to stop being 
surprised? Each new disaster seemed kinda obvious 
in hindsight. Alice was staring at my hands, watching 
them tremble. 

Then we were listening to Rosalie’s voice upstairs. 

“See, I told you I didn’t hear a crack. You need your 
ears checked, Edward.” 

There was no answer. 

Alice made a face. “Edward’s going to end up ripping 
Rose into small pieces, I think. I’m surprised she 
doesn’t see that. Or maybe she thinks Emmett will be 
able to stop him.” 

“I’ll take Emmett,” I offered. “You can help Edward 
with the ripping part.” 

Alice half-smiled. 

The procession came down the stairs then — Edward 
had Bella this time. She was gripping her cup of blood 
in both hands, and her face was white. I could see 
that, though he compensated for every tiny movement 
of his body to keep from jostling her, she was hurting. 

“Jake,” she whispered, and she smiled through the 
pain. 

362 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at her, saying nothing. 

Edward placed Bella carefully on her couch and sat 
on the floor by her head. I wondered briefly why they 
didn’t leave her upstairs, and then decided at once 
that it must be Bella’s idea. She’d want to act like 
things were normal, avoid the hospital setup. And he 
was humoring her. Naturally. 

Carlisle came down slowly, the last one, his face 
creased with worry. It made him look old enough to 
be a doctor for once. 

“Carlisle,” I said. “We went halfway to Seattle. There’s 
no sign of the pack. You’re good to go.” 

“Thank you, Jacob. This is good timing. There’s much 
that we need.” His black eyes flickered to the cup that 
Bella was holding so tight. 

“Honestly, I think you’re safe to take more than three. 
I’m pretty positive that Sam is concentrating on La 
Push.” 

Carlisle nodded in agreement. It surprised me how 
willingly he took my advice. “If you think so. Alice, 
Esme, Jasper, and I will go. Then Alice can take 
Emmett and Rosa — ” 

“Not a chance,” Rosalie hissed. “Emmett can go with 
you now.” 

“You should hunt,” Carlisle said in a gentle voice. 

His tone didn’t soften hers. “I’ll hunt when he does,” 
she growled, jerking her head toward Edward and 
then flipping her hair back. 



363 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Carlisle sighed. 



Jasper and Emmett were down the stairs in a flash, 
and Alice joined them by the glass back door in the 
same second. Esme flitted to Alice’s side. 

Carlisle put his hand on my arm. The icy touch did 
not feel good, but I didn’t jerk away. I held still, half 
in surprise, and half because I didn’t want to hurt his 
feelings. 

“Thank you,” he said again, and then he darted out 
the door with the other four. My eyes followed them 
as they flew across the lawn and then disappeared 
before I took another breath. Their needs must have 
been more urgent than I’d imagined. There was no 
sound for a minute. I could feel someone glaring at 
me, and I knew who it would be. I’d been planning to 
take off and get some Z’s, but the chance to ruin 
Rosalie’s morning seemed too good to pass up. 

So I sauntered over to the armchair next to the one 
Rosalie had and settled in, sprawling out so that my 
head was tilted toward Bella and my left foot was near 
Rosalie’s face. 

“Ew. Someone put the dog out,” she murmured, 
wrinkling her nose. 

“Have you heard this one, Psycho? How do a blonde’s 
brain cells die?” 

She didn’t say anything. 

“Well?” I asked. “Do you know the punch line or not?” 
She looked pointedly at the TV and ignored me. 

364 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Has she heard it?” I asked Edward. 



There was no humor on his tense face — he didn’t 
move his eyes from Bella. But he said, 

“No.” 

“Awesome. So youll enjoy this, bloodsucker — a 
blonde’s brain cells die alone.” 

Rosalie still didn’t look at me. “I have killed a hundred 
times more often than you have, you disgusting beast. 
Don’t forget that.” 

“Someday, Beauty Queen, you’re going to get tired of 
just threatening me. I’m really looking forward to 
that.” 

“Enough, Jacob,” Bella said. 

I looked down, and she was scowling at me. It looked 
like yesterday’s good mood was long gone. 

Well, I didn’t want to bug her. “You want me to take 
off?” I offered. Before I could hope — or fear — that she’d 
finally gotten tired of me, she blinked, and her frown 
disappeared. She seemed totally shocked that I would 
come to that conclusion. 

“No! Of course not.” 

I sighed, and I heard Edward sigh very quietly, too. I 
knew he wished she’d get over me, too. Too bad he’d 
never ask her to do anything that might make her 
unhappy. 

“You look tired,” Bella commented. 



365 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Dead beat,” I admitted. 

“I’d like to beat you dead,” Rosalie muttered, too low 
for Bella to hear. I just slumped deeper into the chair, 
getting comfortable. My bare foot dangled closer to 
Rosalie, and she stiffened. After a few minutes Bella 
asked Rosalie for a refill. I felt the wind as Rosalie 
blew upstairs to get her some more blood. It was 
really quiet. Might as well take a nap, I figured. 

And then Edward said, “Did you say something?” in a 
puzzled tone. Strange. Because no one had said 
anything, and because Edward’s hearing was as good 
as mine, and he should have known that. 

He was staring at Bella, and she was staring back. 
They both looked confused. 

“Me?” she asked after a second. “I didn’t say 
anything.” 

He moved onto his knees, leaning forward over her, 
his expression suddenly intense in a whole different 
way. His black eyes focused on her face. 

“What are you thinking about right now?” 

She stared at him blankly. “Nothing. What’s going 
on?” 

“What were you thinking about a minute ago?” he 
asked. 

“Just... Esme’s island. And feathers.” 

Sounded like total gibberish to me, but then she 
blushed, and I figured I was better off not knowing. 



366 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Say something else,” he whispered. 

“Like what? Edward, what’s going on?” 

His face changed again, and he did something that 
made my mouth fall open with a pop. I heard a gasp 
behind me, and I knew that Rosalie was back, and 
just as flabbergasted as I was. 

Edward, very lightly, put both of his hands against 
her huge, round stomach. 

“The f — ” He swallowed. “It... the baby likes the sound 
of your voice.” 

There was one short beat of total silence. I could not 
move a muscle, even to blink. Then — 

“Holy crow, you can hear him! ” Bella shouted. In the 
next second, she winced. Edward’s hand moved to the 
top peak of her belly and gently rubbed the spot 
where it must have kicked her. 

“Shh,” he murmured. “You startled it... him.” 

Her eyes got all wide and full of wonder. She patted 
the side of her stomach. “Sorry, baby.” 

Edward was listening hard, his head tilted toward the 
bulge. 

“What’s he thinking now?” she demanded eagerly. 

“It... he or she, is . . .” He paused and looked up into 
her eyes. His eyes were filled with a similar awe — only 
his were more careful and grudging. “He’s happy,” 
Edward said in an incredulous voice. 



367 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Her breath caught, and it was impossible not to see 
the fanatical gleam in her eyes. The adoration and the 
devotion. Big, fat tears overflowed her eyes and ran 
silently down her face and over her smiling lips. 

As he stared at her, his face was not frightened or 
angry or burning or any of the other expressions he’d 
worn since their return. He was marveling with her. 

“Of course you’re happy, pretty baby, of course you 
are,” she crooned, rubbing her stomach while the 
tears washed her cheeks. “How could you not be, all 
safe and warm and loved? I love you so much, little 
EJ, of course you’re happy.” 

“What did you call him?” Edward asked curiously. 

She blushed again. “I sort of named him. I didn’t 
think you would want... well, you know.” 

“EJ?” 

“Your father’s name was Edward, too.” 

“Yes, it was. What — ?” He paused and then said, 
“Hmm.” 

“What?” 

“He likes my voice, too.” 

“Of course he does.” Her tone was almost gloating 
now. “You have the most beautiful voice in the 
universe. Who wouldn’t love it?” 

“Do you have a backup plan?” Rosalie asked then, 
leaning over the back of the sofa with the same 



368 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




wondering, gloating look on her face that was on 
Bella’s. “What if he’s a she?” 

Bella wiped the back of her hand under her wet eyes. 
“I kicked a few things around. Playing with Renee and 
Esme. I was thinking... Ruh- nez-may.” 

“Ruhnezmay?” 



“R-e-n-e-s-m-e-e. Too weird?” 



“No, I like it,” Rosalie assured her. Their heads were 
close together, gold and mahogany. “It’s beautiful. 
And one of a kind, so that fits.” 

“I still think he’s an Edward.” 

Edward was staring off into space, his face blank as 
he listened. 

“What?” Bella asked, her face just glowing away. 
“What’s he thinking now?” 

At first he didn’t answer, and then — shocking all the 
rest of us again, three distinct and separate gasps — 
he laid his ear tenderly against her belly. 

“He loves you,” Edward whispered, sounding dazed. 
“He absolutely adores you.” 

In that moment, I knew that I was alone. All alone. 

I wanted to kick myself when I realized how much I’d 
been counting on that loathsome vampire. How 
stupid — as if you could ever trust a leech! Of course 
he would betray me in the end. 



369 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’d counted on him to be on my side. I’d counted on 
him to suffer more than I suffered. And, most of all, 

I’d counted on him to hate that revolting thing killing 
Bella more than I hated it. 

I’d trusted him with that. 

Yet now they were together, the two of them bent over 
the budding, invisible monster with their eyes lit up 
like a happy family. 

And I was all alone with my hatred and the pain that 
was so bad it was like being tortured. Like being 
dragged slowly across a bed of razor blades. Pain so 
bad you’d take death with a smile just to get away 
from it. 

The heat unlocked my frozen muscles, and I was on 
my feet. 

All three of their heads snapped up, and I watched 
my pain ripple across Edward’s face as he trespassed 
in my head again. 

“Ahh,” he choked. 

I didn’t know what I was doing; I stood there, 
trembling, ready to bolt for the very first escape that I 
could think of. 

Moving like the strike of a snake, Edward darted to a 
small end table and ripped something from the 
drawer there. He tossed it at me, and I caught the 
object reflexively. 

“Go, Jacob. Get away from here.” He didn’t say it 
harshly — he threw the words at me like they were a 



370 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




life preserver. He was helping me find the escape I 
was dying for. The object in my hand was a set of car 
keys. 



371 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





WHAT DO I LOOK LIKE? THE WIZARD OF OZ? 
YOU NEED A BRAIN? YOU NEED A HEART? GO 
AHEAD. TAKE MINE. TAKE EVERYTHING I HAVE. 

I sort of had a plan as I ran to the Cullens’ garage. 

The second part of it was totaling the bloodsucker’s 
car on my way back. 

So I was at a loss when I mashed the button on the 
keyless remote, and it was not his Volvo that beeped 
and flashed its lights for me. It was another car — a 
standout even in the long line of vehicles that were 
mostly all drool-worthy in their own ways. Did he 
actually mean to give me the keys to an Aston Martin 
Vanquish, or was that an accident? 

I didn’t pause to think about it, or if this would 
change that second part of my plan. I just threw 
myself into the silky leather seat and cranked the 
engine while my knees were still crunched up under 
the steering wheel. The sound of the motor’s purr 
might have made me moan another day, but right 
now it was all I could do to concentrate enough to put 
it in drive. 

I found the seat release and shoved myself back as 
my foot rammed the pedal down. The car felt almost 
airborne as it leaped forward. 

It only took seconds to race through the tight, 
winding drive. The car responded to me like my 
thoughts were steering rather than my hands. As I 
blew out of the green tunnel and onto the highway, I 



372 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



caught a fleeting glimpse of Leah’s gray face peering 
uneasily through the ferns. 

For half a second, I wondered what she’d think, and 
then I realized that I didn’t care. I turned south, 
because I had no patience today for ferries or traffic 
or anything else that meant I might have to lift my 
foot off the pedal. 

In a sick way, it was my lucky day. If by lucky you 
meant taking a well-traveled highway at two hundred 
without so much as seeing one cop, even in the 
thirty-mile-anhour speed-trap towns. What a letdown. 
A little chase action might have been nice, not to 
mention that the license plate info would bring the 
heat down on the leech. Sure, he’d buy his way out of 
it, but it might have been just a little inconvenient for 
him. The only sign of surveillance I came across was 
just a hint of dark brown fur flitting through the 
woods, running parallel to me for a few miles on the 
south side of Forks. Quil, it looked like. He must have 
seen me, too, because he disappeared after a minute 
without raising an alarm. Again, I almost wondered 
what his story would be before I remembered that I 
didn’t care. 

I raced around the long U-shaped highway, heading 
for the biggest city I could find. That was the first part 
of my plan. 

It seemed to take forever, probably because I was still 
on the razor blades, but it actually didn’t even take 
two hours before I was driving north into the 
undefined sprawl that was part Tacoma and part 



373 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Seattle. I slowed down then, because I really wasn’t 
trying to kill any innocent bystanders. 

This was a stupid plan. It wasn’t going to work. But, 
as I’d searched my head for any way at all to get away 
from the pain, what Leah’d said today had popped in 
there. That would go away, you know, if you 
imprinted. You wouldn’t have to hurt over her 
anymore. 

Seemed like maybe getting your choices taken away 
from you wasn’t the very worst thing in the world. 
Maybe feeling like this was the very worst thing in the 
world. But I’d seen all the girls in La Push and up on 
the Makah rez and in Forks. I needed a wider hunting 
range. 

So how do you look for a random soul mate in a 
crowd? Well, first, I needed a crowd. So I tooled 
around, looking for a likely spot. I passed a couple of 
malls, which probably would’ve been pretty good 
places to find girls my age, but I couldn’t make myself 
stop. Did I want to imprint on some girl who hung out 
in a mall all day? 

I kept going north, and it got more and more crowded. 
Eventually, I found a big park full of kids and families 
and skateboards and bikes and kites and picnics and 
the whole bit. I hadn’t noticed till now — it was a nice 
day. Sun and all that. People were out celebrating the 
blue sky. 

I parked across two handicapped spots — just begging 
for a ticket — and joined the crowd. 



374 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I walked around for what felt like hours. Long enough 
that the sun changed sides in the sky. I stared into 
the face of every girl who passed anywhere near me, 
making myself really look, noticing who was pretty 
and who had blue eyes and who looked good in 
braces and who had way too much makeup on. I tried 
to find something interesting about each face, so that 
I would know for sure that I’d really tried. Things like: 
This one had a really straight nose; that one should 
pull her hair out of her eyes; this one could do 
lipstick ads if the rest of her face was as perfect as 
her mouth. . . . Sometimes they stared back. 
Sometimes they looked scared — like they were 
thinking, Who is this big freak glaring at me? 
Sometimes I thought they looked kind of interested, 
but maybe that was just my ego running wild. 

Either way, nothing. Even when I met the eyes of the 
girl who was — no contest — the hottest girl in the park 
and probably in the city, and she stared right back 
with a speculation that looked like interest, I felt 
nothing. Just the same desperate drive to find a way 
out of the pain. 

As time went on, I started noticing all the wrong 
things. Bella things. This one’s hair was the same 
color. That one’s eyes were sort of shaped the same. 
This one’s cheekbones cut across her face in just the 
same way. That one had the same little crease 
between her eyes — which made me wonder what she 
was worrying about. . . . That was when I gave up. 
Because it was beyond stupid to think that I had 
picked exactly the right place and time and I was 



375 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




going to simply walk into my soul mate just because I 
was so desperate to. 

It wouldn’t make sense to find her here, anyway. If 
Sam was right, the best place to find my genetic 
match would be in La Push. And, clearly, no one 
there fit the bill. If Billy was right, then who knew? 
What made for a stronger wolf? 

I wandered back to the car and then slumped against 
the hood and played with the keys. Maybe I was what 
Leah thought she was. Some kind of dead end that 
shouldn’t be passed on to another generation. Or 
maybe it was just that my life was a big, cruel joke, 
and there was no escape from the punch line. 

“Hey, you okay? Hello? You there, with the stolen 
car.” 

It took me a second to realize that the voice was 
talking to me, and then another second to decide to 
raise my head. 

A familiar-looking girl was staring at me, her 
expression kind of anxious. I knew why I recognized 
her face — I’d already catalogued this one. Light red- 
gold hair, fair skin, a few gold-colored freckles 
sprinkled across her cheeks and nose, and eyes the 
color of cinnamon. 

“If you’re feeling that remorseful over boosting the 
car,” she said, smiling so that a dimple popped out in 
her chin, “you could always turn yourself in.” 



376 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s borrowed, not stolen,” I snapped. My voice 
sounded horrible — like I’d been crying or something. 
Embarrassing. 

“Sure, that’ll hold up in court.” 

I glowered. “You need something?” 

“Not really. I was kidding about the car, you know. 

It’s just that... you look really upset about something. 
Oh, hey, I’m Lizzie.” She held out her hand. 

I looked at it until she let it fall. 

“Anyway...,” she said awkwardly, “I was just 
wondering if I could help. Seemed like you were 
looking for someone before.” She gestured toward the 
park and shrugged. 

“Yeah.” 

She waited. 

I sighed. “I don’t need any help. She’s not here.” 

“Oh. Sorry.” 

“Me, too,” I muttered. 

I looked at the girl again. Lizzie. She was pretty. Nice 
enough to try to help a grouchy stranger who must 
seem nuts. Why couldn’t she be the one? Why did 
everything have to be so freaking complicated? Nice 
girl, pretty, and sort of funny. Why not? 

“This is a beautiful car,” she said. “It’s really a shame 
they’re not making them anymore. I mean, the 



377 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Vantage’s body styling is gorgeous, too, but there’s 
just something about the Vanquish. . . 

Nice girl who knew cars. Wow. I stared at her face 
harder, wishing I knew how to make it work. C’mon, 
Jake — imprint already. 

“How’s it drive?” she asked. 

“Like you wouldn’t believe,” I told her. 

She grinned her one-dimple smile, clearly pleased to 
have dragged a halfway civil response out of me, and I 
gave her a reluctant smile back. 

But her smile did nothing about the sharp, cutting 
blades that raked up and down my body. No matter 
how much I wanted it to, my life was not going to 
come together like that. 

I wasn’t in that healthier place where Leah was 
headed. I wasn’t going to be able to fall in love like a 
normal person. Not when I was bleeding over 
someone else. Maybe — if it was ten years from now 
and Bella’s heart was long dead and I’d hauled myself 
through the whole grieving process and come out in 
one piece again — maybe then I could offer Lizzie a ride 
in a fast car and talk makes and models and get to 
know something about her and see if I liked her as a 
person. But that wasn’t going to happen now. Magic 
wasn’t going to save me. I was just going to have to 
take the torture like a man. Suck it up. 

Lizzie waited, maybe hoping I was going to offer her 
that ride. Or maybe not. 



378 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’d better get this car back to the guy I borrowed it 
from,” I muttered. She smiled again. “Glad to hear 
you’re going straight.” 

“Yeah, you convinced me.” 

She watched me get in the car, still sort of concerned. 
I probably looked like someone who was about to 
drive off a cliff. Which maybe I would’ve, if that kind 
of move’d work for a werewolf. She waved once, her 
eyes trailing after the car. At first, I drove more sanely 
on the way back. I wasn’t in a rush. I didn’t want to 
go where I was going. Back to that house, back to 
that forest. Back to the pain I’d run from. Back to 
being absolutely alone with it. 

Okay, that was melodramatic. I wouldn’t be all alone, 
but that was a bad thing. Leah and Seth would have 
to suffer with me. I was glad Seth wouldn’t have to 
suffer long. Kid didn’t deserve to have his peace of 
mind ruined. Leah didn’t, either, but at least it was 
something she understood. Nothing new about pain 
for Leah. 

I sighed big as I thought about what Leah wanted 
from me, because I knew now that she was going to 
get it. I was still pissed at her, but I couldn’t ignore 
the fact that I could make her life easier. And — now 
that I knew her better — I thought she would probably 
do this for me, if our positions were reversed. 

It would be interesting, at the very least, and strange, 
too, to have Leah as a companion 

— as a friend. We were going to get under each other’s 
skin a lot, that was for sure. She wouldn’t be one to 



379 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




let me wallow, but I thought that was a good thing. I’d 
probably need someone to kick my butt now and 
then. But when it came right down to it, she was 
really the only friend who had any chance of 
understanding what I was going through now. 

I thought of the hunt this morning, and how close our 
minds had been for that one moment in time. It 
hadn’t been a bad thing. Different. A little scary, a 
little awkward. But also nice in a weird way. 

I didn’t have to be all alone. 

And I knew Leah was strong enough to face with me 
the months that were coming. Months and years. It 
made me tired to think about it. I felt like I was 
staring out across an ocean that I was going to have 
to swim from shore to shore before I could rest again. 
So much time coming, and then so little time before it 
started. Before I was flung into that ocean. Three and 
a half more days, and here I was, wasting that little 
bit of time I had. 

I started driving too fast again. 

I saw Sam and Jared, one on either side of the road 
like sentinels, as I raced up the road toward Forks. 
They were well hidden in the thick branches, but I 
was expecting them, and I knew what to look for. I 
nodded as I blew past them, not bothering to wonder 
what they made of my day trip. 

I nodded to Leah and Seth, too, as I cruised up the 
Cullens’ driveway. It was starting to get dark, and the 
clouds were thick on this side of the sound, but I saw 
their eyes glitter in the glow of the headlights. I would 



380 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




explain to them later. There ’d be plenty of time for 
that. 

It was a surprise to find Edward waiting for me in the 
garage. I hadn’t seen him away from Bella in days. I 
could tell from his face that nothing bad had 
happened to her. In fact, he looked more peaceful 
than before. My stomach tightened as I remembered 
where that peace came from. 

It was too bad that — with all my brooding — I’d 
forgotten to wreck the car. Oh well. I probably 
wouldn’t have been able to stand hurting this car, 
anyway. Maybe he’d guessed as much, and that’s why 
he’d lent it to me in the first place. 

“A few things, Jacob,” he said as soon as I cut the 
engine. 

I took a deep breath and held it for a minute. Then, 
slowly, I got out of the car and threw the keys to him. 

“Thanks for the loan,” I said sourly. Apparently, it 
would have to be repaid. “What do you want now?” 

“Firstly... I know how averse you are to using your 
authority with your pack, but ...” 

I blinked, astonished that he would even dream of 
starting in on this one. “What?” 

“If you can’t or won’t control Leah, then I — ” 

“Leah?” I interrupted, speaking through my teeth. 
“What happened?” 



381 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s face was hard. “She came up to see why 
you’d left so abruptly. I tried to explain. I suppose it 
might not have come out right.” 

“What did she do?” 

“She phased to her human form and — ” 

“Really?” I interrupted again, shocked this time. I 
couldn’t process that. Leah letting her guard down 
right in the mouth of the enemy’s lair? 

“She wanted to... speak to Bella.” 

“To Bella?” 

Edward got all hissy then. “I won’t let Bella be upset 
like that again. I don’t care how justified Leah thinks 
she is! I didn’t hurt her — of course I wouldn’t — but I’ll 
throw her out of the house if it happens again. I’ll 
launch her right across the river — ” 

“Hold on. What did she say?” None of this was making 
any sense. Edward took a deep breath, composing 
himself. “Leah was unnecessarily harsh. I’m not going 
to pretend that I understand why Bella is unable to 
let go of you, but I do know that she does not behave 
this way to hurt you. She suffers a great deal over the 
pain she’s inflicting on you, and on me, by asking you 
to stay. What Leah said was uncalled for. Bella’s been 
crying—” 

“Wait — Leah was yelling at Bella about me?” 

He nodded one sharp nod. “You were quite 
vehemently championed.” 



382 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Whoa. “I didn’t ask her to do that.” 



“I know.” 

I rolled my eyes. Of course he knew. He knew 
everything. 

But that was really something about Leah. Who 
would have believed it? Leah walking into the 
bloodsuckers’ place human to complain about how I 
was being treated. 

“I can’t promise to control Leah,” I told him. “I won’t 
do that. But I’ll talk to her, okay? 

And I don’t think there’ll be a repeat. Leah’s not one 
to hold back, so she probably got it all off her chest 
today.” 

“I would say so.” 

“Anyway, I’ll talk to Bella about it, too. She doesn’t 
need to feel bad. This one’s on me.” 

“I already told her that.” 

“Of course you did. Is she okay?” 

“She’s sleeping now. Rose is with her.” 

So the psycho was “Rose” now. He’d completely 
crossed over to the dark side. He ignored that 
thought, continuing with a more complete answer to 
my question. 

“She’s... better in some ways. Aside from Leah’s tirade 
and the resulting guilt.” 



383 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Better. Because Edward was hearing the monster and 
everything was all lovey-dovey now. Fantastic. 

“It’s a bit more than that,” he murmured. “Now that I 
can make out the child’s thoughts, it’s apparent that 
he or she has remarkably developed mental facilities. 
He can understand us, to an extent.” 

My mouth fell open. “Are you serious?” 

“Yes. He seems to have a vague sense of what hurts 
her now. He’s trying to avoid that, as much as 
possible. He... loves her. Already.” 

I stared at Edward, feeling sort of like my eyes might 
pop out of their sockets. Underneath that disbelief, I 
could see right away that this was the critical factor. 
This was what had changed Edward — that the 
monster had convinced him of this love. He couldn’t 
hate what loved Bella. It was probably why he 
couldn’t hate me, either. There was a big difference, 
though. I wasn’t killing her. 

Edward went on, acting like he hadn’t heard all that. 
“The progress, I believe, is more than we’d judged. 
When Carlisle returns — ” 

“They’re not back?” I cut in sharply. I thought of Sam 
and Jared, watching the road. Would they get curious 
as to what was going on? 

“Alice and Jasper are. Carlisle sent all the blood he 
was able to acquire, but it wasn’t as much as he was 
hoping for — Bella will use up this supply in another 
day the way her appetite has grown. Carlisle stayed to 



384 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




try another source. I don’t think that’s necessary now, 
but he wants to be covered for any eventuality.” 

“Why isn’t it necessary? If she needs more?” 

I could tell he was watching and listening to my 
reaction carefully as he explained. “I’m trying to 
persuade Carlisle to deliver the baby as soon as he is 
back.” 

“What?” 

“The child seems to be attempting to avoid rough 
movements, but it’s difficult. He’s become too big. It’s 
madness to wait, when he’s clearly developed beyond 
what Carlisle had guessed. Bella’s too fragile to 
delay.” 

I kept getting my legs knocked out from under me. 
First, counting on Edward’s hatred of the thing so 
much. Now, I’d realized that I thought of those four 
days as a sure thing. I’d banked on them. 

The endless ocean of grief that waited stretched out 
before me. I tried to catch my breath. 

Edward waited. I stared at his face while I recovered, 
recognizing another change there. 

“You think she’s going to make it,” I whispered. 

“Yes. That was the other thing I wanted to talk to you 
about.” 

I couldn’t say anything. After a minute, he went on. 

“Yes,” he said again. “Waiting, as we have been, for 
the child to be ready, that was insanely dangerous. At 



385 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




any moment it could have been too late. But if we’re 
proactive about this, if we act quickly, I see no reason 
why it should not go well. Knowing the child’s mind is 
unbelievably helpful. Thankfully, Bella and Rose 
agree with me. Now that I’ve convinced them it’s safe 
for the child if we proceed, there’s nothing to keep 
this from working.” 

“When will Carlisle be back?” I asked, still whispering. 
I hadn’t got my breath back yet. 

“By noon tomorrow.” 

My knees buckled. I had to grab the car to hold 
myself up. Edward reached out like he was offering 
support, but then he thought better of it and dropped 
his hands. 

“I’m sorry,” he whispered. “I am truly sorry for the 
pain this causes you, Jacob. Though you hate me, I 
must admit that I don’t feel the same about you. I 
think of you as a... a brother in many ways. A 
comrade in arms, at the very least. I regret your 
suffering more than you realize. But Bella is going to 
survive” — when he said that his voice was fierce, even 
violent — “and I know that’s what really matters to 
you.” 

He was probably right. It was hard to tell. My head 
was spinning. 

“So I hate to do this now, while you’re already dealing 
with too much, but, clearly, there is little time. I have 
to ask you for something — to beg, if I must.” 

“I don’t have anything left,” I choked out. 



386 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He lifted his hand again, as if to put it on my 
shoulder, but then let it drop like before and sighed. 

“I know how much you have given,” he said quietly. 
“But this is something you do have, and only you. I’m 
asking this of the true Alpha, Jacob. I’m asking this of 
Ephraim’s heir.” 

I was way past being able to respond. 

“I want your permission to deviate from what we 
agreed to in our treaty with Ephraim. I want you to 
grant us an exception. I want your permission to save 
her life. You know I’ll do it anyway, but I don’t want to 
break faith with you if there is any way to avoid it. We 
never intended to go back on our word, and we don’t 
do it lightly now. I want your understanding, Jacob, 
because you know exactly why we do this. I want the 
alliance between our families to survive when this is 
over.” 

I tried to swallow. Sam, I thought. It’s Sam you want. 

“No. Sam’s authority is assumed. It belongs to you. 
You’ll never take it from him, but no one can 
rightfully agree to what I’m asking except for you.” 

It’s not my decision. 

“It is, Jacob, and you know it. Your word on this will 
condemn us or absolve us. Only you can give this to 
me.” 

I can’t think. I don’t know. 

“We don’t have much time.” He glanced back toward 
the house. 



387 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




No, there was no time. My few days had become a few 
hours. 

I don’t know. Let me think. Just give me a minute 
here, okay? 

“Yes.” 

I started walking to the house, and he followed. Crazy 
how easy it was, walking through the dark with a 
vampire right beside me. It didn’t feel unsafe, or even 
uncomfortable, really. It felt like walking next to 
anybody. Well, anybody who smelled bad. There was 
a movement in the brush at the edge of the big lawn, 
and then a low whimper. Seth shrugged through the 
ferns and loped over to us. 

“Hey, kid,” I muttered. 

He dipped his head, and I patted his shoulder. 

“S’all cool,” I lied. “I’ll tell you about it later. Sorry to 
take off on you like that.” 

He grinned at me. 

“Hey, tell your sister to back off now, okay? Enough.” 
Seth nodded once. 

I shoved against his shoulder this time. “Get back to 
work. I’ll spell you in a bit.” 

Seth leaned against me, shoving back, and then he 
galloped into the trees. 



388 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“He has one of the purest, sincerest, kindest minds 
I’ve ever heard,” Edward murmured when he was out 
of sight. “You’re lucky to have his thoughts to share.” 

“I know that,” I grunted. 

We started toward the house, and both of our heads 
snapped up when we heard the sound of someone 
sucking through a straw. Edward was in a hurry 
then. He darted up the porch stairs and was gone. 

“Bella, love, I thought you were sleeping,” I heard him 
say. “I’m sorry, I wouldn’t have left.” 

“Don’t worry. I just got so thirsty — it woke me up. It’s 
a good thing Carlisle is bringing more. This kid is 
going to need it when he gets out of me.” 

“True. That’s a good point.” 

“I wonder if he’ll want anything else,” she mused. 

“I suppose we’ll find out.” 

I walked through the door. 

Alice said, “Finally,” and Bella’s eyes flashed to me. 
That infuriating, irresistible smile broke across her 
face for one second. Then it faltered, and her face fell. 
Her lips puckered, like she was trying not to cry. 

I wanted to punch Leah right in her stupid mouth. 

“Hey, Bells,” I said quickly. “How ya doing?” 

“I’m fine,” she said. 

“Big day today, huh? Lots of new stuff.” 



389 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You don’t have to do that, Jacob.” 

“Don’t know what you’re talking about,” I said, going 
to sit on the arm of the sofa by her head. Edward had 
the floor there already. 

She gave me a reproachful look. “I’m so s — ” she 
started to say. I pinched her lips together between my 
thumb and finger. 

“Jake,” she mumbled, trying to pull my hand away. 
Her attempt was so weak it was hard to believe that 
she was really trying. 

I shook my head. “You can talk when you’re not being 
stupid.” 

“Fine, I won’t say it,” it sounded like she mumbled. 

I pulled my hand away. 

“Sorry!” she finished quickly, and then grinned. 

I rolled my eyes and then smiled back at her. 

When I stared into her eyes, I saw everything that I’d 
been looking for in the park. Tomorrow, she’d be 
someone else. But hopefully alive, and that was what 
counted, right? She’d look at me with the same eyes, 
sort of. Smile with the same lips, almost. She’d still 
know me better than anyone who didn’t have full 
access to the inside of my head. 

Leah might be an interesting companion, maybe even 
a true friend — someone who would stand up for me. 
But she wasn’t my best friend the way that Bella was. 



390 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Aside from the impossible love I felt for Bella, there 
was also that other bond, and it ran bone deep. 

Tomorrow, she’d be my enemy. Or she’d be my ally. 
And, apparently, that distinction was up to me. 

I sighed. 

Fine! I thought, giving up the very last thing I had to 
give. It made me feel hollow. Go ahead. Save her. As 
Ephraim’s heir, you have my permission, my word, 
that this will not violate the treaty. The others will 
just have to blame me. You were right — they can’t 
deny that it’s my right to agree to this. 

“Thank you.” Edward’s whisper was low enough that 
Bella didn’t hear anything. But the words were so 
fervent that, from the corner of my eye, I saw the 
other vampires turning to stare. 

“So,” Bella asked, working to be casual. “How was 
your day?” 

“Great. Went for a drive. Hung out in the park.” 
“Sounds nice.” 

“Sure, sure.” 

Suddenly, she made a face. “Rose?” she asked. 

I heard Blondie chuckle. “Again?” 

“I think I’ve drunk two gallons in the last hour,” Bella 
explained. Edward and I both got out of the way while 
Rosalie came to lift Bella from the couch and take her 
to the bathroom. 



391 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Can I walk?” Bella asked. “My legs are so stiff.” 

“Are you sure?” Edward asked. 

“Rose’ll catch me if I trip over my feet. Which could 
happen pretty easily, since I can’t see them.” 

Rosalie set Bella carefully on her feet, keeping her 
hands right at Bella’s shoulders. Bella stretched her 
arms out in front of her, wincing a little. 

“That feels good,” she sighed. “Ugh, but I’m huge.” 

She really was. Her stomach was its own continent. 

“One more day,” she said, and patted her stomach. 

I couldn’t help the pain that shot through me in a 
sudden, stabbing burst, but I tried to keep it off my 
face. I could hide it for one more day, right? 

“All righty, then. Whoops — oh, no!” 

The cup Bella had left on the sofa tumbled to one 
side, the dark red blood spilling out onto the pale 
fabric. 

Automatically, though three other hands beat her 
there, Bella bent over, reaching out to catch it. 

There was the strangest, muffled ripping sound from 
the center of her body. 

“Oh!” she gasped. 

And then she went totally limp, slumping toward the 
floor. Rosalie caught her in the same instant, before 
she could fall. Edward was there, too, hands out, the 
mess on the sofa forgotten. 

392 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella?” he asked, and then his eyes unfocused, and 
panic shot across his features. A half second later, 
Bella screamed. 

It was not just a scream, it was a blood-curdling 
shriek of agony. The horrifying sound cut off with a 
gurgle, and her eyes rolled back into her head. Her 
body twitched, arched in Rosalie’s arms, and then 
Bella vomited a fountain of blood. 



393 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





THERE ARE NO WORDS FOR THIS. 

Bella’s body, streaming with red, started to twitch, 
jerking around in Rosalie’s arms like she was being 
electrocuted. All the while, her face was blank — 
unconscious. It was the wild thrashing from inside 
the center of her body that moved her. As she 
convulsed, sharp snaps and cracks kept time with the 
spasms. 

Rosalie and Edward were frozen for the shortest half 
second, and then they broke. Rosalie whipped Bella’s 
body into her arms, and, shouting so fast it was hard 
to separate the individual words, she and Edward 
shot up the staircase to the second floor. I sprinted 
after them. 

“Morphine!” Edward yelled at Rosalie. 

“Alice — get Carlisle on the phone!” Rosalie screeched. 

The room I followed them to looked like an emergency 
ward set up in the middle of a library. The lights were 
brilliant and white. Bella was on a table under the 
glare, skin ghostly in the spotlight. Her body flopped, 
a fish on the sand. Rosalie pinned Bella down, 
yanking and ripping her clothes out of the way, while 
Edward stabbed a syringe into her arm. 

How many times had I imagined her naked? Now I 
couldn’t look. I was afraid to have these memories in 
my head. 

“What’s happening, Edward?” 

394 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“He’s suffocating!” 

“The placenta must have detached!” 

Somewhere in this, Bella came around. She 
responded to their words with a shriek that clawed at 
my eardrums. 

“Get him OUT!” she screamed. “He can’t BREATHE! 
Do it NOW!” 

I saw the red spots pop out when her scream broke 
the blood vessels in her eyes. 

“The morphine — Edward growled. 

“NO! NOW — !” Another gush of blood choked off what 
she was shrieking. He held her head up, desperately 
trying to clear her mouth so that she could breathe 
again. Alice darted into the room and clipped a little 
blue earpiece under Rosalie’s hair. Then Alice backed 
away, her gold eyes wide and burning, while Rosalie 
hissed frantically into the phone. 

In the bright light, Bella’s skin seemed more purple 
and black than it was white. Deep red was seeping 
beneath the skin over the huge, shuddering bulge of 
her stomach. Rosalie’s hand came up with a scalpel. 

“Let the morphine spread!” Edward shouted at her. 

“There’s no time,” Rosalie hissed. “He’s dying!” 

Her hand came down on Bella’s stomach, and vivid 
red spouted out from where she pierced the skin. It 
was like a bucket being turned over, a faucet twisted 



395 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




to full. Bella jerked, but didn’t scream. She was still 
choking. 

And then Rosalie lost her focus. I saw the expression 
on her face shift, saw her lips pull back from her 
teeth and her black eyes glint with thirst. 

“No, Rose!” Edward roared, but his hands were 
trapped, trying to prop Bella upright so she could 
breathe. 

I launched myself at Rosalie, jumping across the table 
without bothering to phase. As I hit her stone body, 
knocking her toward the door, I felt the scalpel in her 
hand stab deep into my left arm. My right palm 
smashed against her face, locking her jaw and 
blocking her airways. 

I used my grip on Rosalie’s face to swing her body out 
so that I could land a solid kick in her gut; it was like 
kicking concrete. She flew into the door frame, 
buckling one side of it. The little speaker in her ear 
crackled into pieces. Then Alice was there, yanking 
her by the throat to get her into the hall. 

And I had to give it to Blondie — she didn’t put up an 
ounce of fight. She wanted us to win. She let me trash 
her like that, to save Bella. Well, to save the thing. I 
ripped the blade out of my arm. 

“Alice, get her out of here!” Edward shouted. “Take 
her to Jasper and keep her there! 

Jacob, I need you!” 



396 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t watch Alice finish the job. I wheeled back to 
the operating table, where Bella was turning blue, her 
eyes wide and staring. 

“CPR?” Edward growled at me, fast and demanding. 
“Yes!” 

I judged his face swiftly, looking for any sign that he 
was going to react like Rosalie. There was nothing but 
single-minded ferocity. 

“Get her breathing! I’ve got to get him out before — ” 

Another shattering crack inside her body, the loudest 
yet, so loud that we both froze in shock waiting for 
her answering shriek. Nothing. Her legs, which had 
been curled up in agony, now went limp, sprawling 
out in an unnatural way. 

“Her spine,” he choked in horror. 

“Get it out of her!” I snarled, flinging the scalpel at 
him. “She won’t feel anything now!” 

And then I bent over her head. Her mouth looked 
clear, so I pressed mine to hers and blew a lungful of 
air into it. I felt her twitching body expand, so there 
was nothing blocking her throat. 

Her lips tasted like blood. 

I could hear her heart, thumping unevenly. Keep it 
going, I thought fiercely at her, blowing another gust 
of air into her body. You promised. Keep your heart 
beating. I heard the soft, wet sound of the scalpel 
across her stomach. More blood dripping to the floor. 



397 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The next sound jolted through me, unexpected, 
terrifying. Like metal being shredded apart. The 
sound brought back the fight in the clearing so many 
months ago, the tearing sound of the newborns being 
ripped apart. I glanced over to see Edward’s face 
pressed against the bulge. Vampire teeth — a surefire 
way to cut through vampire skin. I shuddered as I 
blew more air into Bella. 

She coughed back at me, her eyes blinking, rolling 
blindly. 

“You stay with me now, Bella!” I yelled at her. “Do you 
hear me? Stay! You’re not leaving me. Keep your 
heart beating!” 

Her eyes wheeled, looking for me, or him, but seeing 
nothing. 

I stared into them anyway, keeping my gaze locked 
there. 

And then her body was suddenly still under my 
hands, though her breathing picked up roughly and 
her heart continued to thud. I realized the stillness 
meant that it was over. The internal beating was over. 
It must be out of her. 

It was. 

Edward whispered, “Renesmee.” 

So Bella’d been wrong. It wasn’t the boy she’d 
imagined. No big surprise there. What hadn’t she 
been wrong about? 



398 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t look away from her red-spotted eyes, but I felt 
her hands lift weakly. 

“Let me...,” she croaked in a broken whisper. “Give 
her to me.” 

I guess I should have known that he would always 
give her what she wanted, no matter how stupid her 
request might be. But I didn’t dream he would listen 
to her now. So I didn’t think to stop him. 

Something warm touched my arm. That right there 
should have caught my attention. Nothing felt warm 
to me. 

But I couldn’t look away from Bella’s face. She 
blinked and then stared, finally seeing something. 

She moaned out a strange, weak croon. 

“Renes... mee. So... beautiful.” 

And then she gasped — gasped in pain. 

By the time I looked, it was too late. Edward had 
snatched the warm, bloody thing out of her limp 
arms. My eyes flickered across her skin. It was red 
with blood — the blood that had flowed from her 
mouth, the blood smeared all over the creature, and 
fresh blood welling out of a tiny double-crescent bite 
mark just over her left breast. 

“No, Renesmee,” Edward murmured, like he was 
teaching the monster manners. I didn’t look at him or 
it. I watched only Bella as her eyes rolled back into 
her head. With a last dull ga-lump, her heart faltered 
and went silent. She missed maybe half of one beat, 
and then my hands were on her chest, doing 
399 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




compressions. I counted in my head, trying to keep 
the rhythm steady. One. Two. Three. Four. 

Breaking away for a second, I blew another lungful of 
air into her. I couldn’t see anymore. My eyes were wet 
and blurry. But I was hyperaware of the sounds in 
the room. The unwilling glug-glug of her heart under 
my demanding hands, the pounding of my own heart, 
and another — a fluttering beat that was too fast, too 
light. I couldn’t place it. 

I forced more air down Bella’s throat. 

“What are you waiting for?” I choked out breathlessly, 
pumping her heart again. One. Two. Three. Four. 

“Take the baby,” Edward said urgently. 

“Throw it out the window.” One. Two. Three. Four. 

“Give her to me,” a low voice chimed from the 
doorway. 

Edward and I snarled at the same time. 

One. Two. Three. Four. 

“I’ve got it under control,” Rosalie promised. “Give me 
the baby, Edward. I’ll take care of her until Bella . . .” 

I breathed for Bella again while the exchange took 
place. The fluttering thumpa- thumpa-thumpa faded 
away with distance. 

“Move your hands, Jacob.” 



400 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I looked up from Bella’s white eyes, still pumping her 
heart for her. Edward had a syringe in his hand — all 
silver, like it was made from steel. 

“What’s that?” 

His stone hand knocked mine out of the way. There 
was a tiny crunch as his blow broke my little finger. 

In the same second, he shoved the needle straight 
into her heart. 

“My venom,” he answered as he pushed the plunger 
down. 

I heard the jolt in her heart, like he’d shocked her 
with paddles. 

“Keep it moving,” he ordered. His voice was ice, was 
dead. Fierce and unthinking. Like he was a machine. 

I ignored the healing ache in my finger and started 
pumping her heart again. It was harder, as if her 
blood was congealing there — thicker and slower. 

While I pushed the now-viscous blood through her 
arteries, I watched what he was doing. It was like he 
was kissing her, brushing his lips at her throat, at 
her wrists, into the crease at the inside of her arm. 
But I could hear the lush tearing of her skin as his 
teeth bit through, again and again, forcing venom into 
her system at as many points as possible. I saw his 
pale tongue sweep along the bleeding gashes, but 
before this could make me either sick or angry, I 
realized what he was doing. Where his tongue washed 
the venom over her skin, it sealed shut. Holding the 
poison and the blood inside her body. 



401 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I blew more air into her mouth, but there was nothing 
there. Just the lifeless rise of her chest in response. I 
kept pumping her heart, counting, while he worked 
manically over her, trying to put her back together. 

All the king’s horses and all the king’s men... 

But there was nothing there, just me, just him. 

Working over a corpse. 

Because that’s all that was left of the girl we both 
loved. This broken, bled-out, mangled corpse. We 
couldn’t put Bella together again. 

I knew it was too late. I knew she was dead. I knew it 
for sure because the pull was gone. I didn’t feel any 
reason to be here beside her. She wasn’t here 
anymore. So this body had no more draw for me. The 
senseless need to be near her had vanished. Or 
maybe moved was the better word. It seemed like I felt 
the pull from the opposite direction now. From down 
the stairs, out the door. The longing to get away from 
here and never, ever come back. 

“Go, then,” he snapped, and he hit my hands out of 
the way again, taking my place this time. Three 
fingers broken, it felt like. 

I straightened them numbly, not minding the throb of 
pain. 

He pushed her dead heart faster than I had. 

“She’s not dead,” he growled. “She’s going to be fine.” 

I wasn’t sure he was talking to me anymore. 



402 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Turning away, leaving him with his dead, I walked 
slowly to the door. So slowly. I couldn’t make my feet 
move faster. 

This was it, then. The ocean of pain. The other shore 
so far away across the boiling water that I couldn’t 
imagine it, much less see it. 

I felt empty again, now that I’d lost my purpose. 

Saving Bella had been my fight for so long now. And 
she wouldn’t be saved. She’d willingly sacrificed 
herself to be torn apart by that monster’s young, and 
so the fight was lost. It was all over. I shuddered at 
the sound coming from behind me as I plodded down 
the stairs — the sound of a dead heart being forced to 
thud. 

I wanted to somehow pour bleach inside my head and 
let it fry my brain. To burn away the images left from 
Bella’s final minutes. I’d take the brain damage if I 
could get rid of that — the screaming, the bleeding, the 
unbearable crunching and snapping as the newborn 
monster tore through her from the inside out. . . . 

I wanted to sprint away, to take the stairs ten at a 
time and race out the door, but my feet were heavy as 
iron and my body was more tired than it had ever 
been before. I shuffled down the stairs like a crippled 
old man. 

I rested at the bottom step, gathering my strength to 
get out the door. Rosalie was on the clean end of the 
white sofa, her back to me, cooing and murmuring to 
the blanket-wrapped thing in her arms. She must 
have heard me pause, but she ignored me, caught up 
in her moment of stolen motherhood. Maybe she 
403 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




would be happy now. Rosalie had what she wanted, 
and Bella would never come to take the creature from 
her. I wondered if that’s what the poisonous blonde 
had been hoping for all along. She held something 
dark in her hands, and there was a greedy sucking 
sound coming from the tiny murderer she held. 

The scent of blood in the air. Human blood. Rosalie 
was feeding it. Of course it would want blood. What 
else would you feed the kind of monster that would 
brutally mutilate its own mother? It might as well 
have been drinking Bella’s blood. Maybe it was. My 
strength came back to me as I listened to the sound 
of the little executioner feeding. Strength and hate 
and heat — red heat washing through my head, 
burning but erasing nothing. The images in my head 
were fuel, building up the inferno but refusing to be 
consumed. I felt the tremors rock me from head to 
toe, and I did not try to stop them. Rosalie was totally 
absorbed in the creature, paying no attention to me at 
all. She wouldn’t be quick enough to stop me, 
distracted as she was. 

Sam had been right. The thing was an aberration — its 
existence went against nature. A black, soulless 
demon. Something that had no right to be. 

Something that had to be destroyed. 

It seemed like the pull had not been leading to the 
door after all. I could feel it now, encouraging me, 
tugging me forward. Pushing me to finish this, to 
cleanse the world of this abomination. 

Rosalie would try to kill me when the creature was 
dead, and I would fight back. I wasn’t sure if I would 

404 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




have time to finish her before the others came to help. 
Maybe, maybe not. I didn’t much care either way. 

I didn’t care if the wolves, either set, avenged me or 
called the Cullens’ justice fair. None of that mattered. 
All I cared about was my own justice. My revenge. The 
thing that had killed Bella would not live another 
minute longer. 

If Bella’d survived, she would have hated me for this. 
She would have wanted to kill me personally. 

But I didn’t care. She didn’t care what she had done 
to me — letting herself be slaughtered like an animal. 
Why should I take her feelings into account? 

And then there was Edward. He must be too busy 
now — too far gone in his insane denial, trying to 
reanimate a corpse — to listen to my plans. 

So I wouldn’t get the chance to keep my promise to 
him, unless — and it was not a wager I’d put money 
on — I managed to win the fight against Rosalie, 
Jasper, and Alice, three on one. But even if I did win, 

I didn’t think I had it in me to kill Edward. Because I 
didn’t have enough compassion for that. Why should I 
let him get away from what he’d done? Wouldn’t it be 
more fair — more satisfying — to let him live with 
nothing, nothing at all? 

It made me almost smile, as filled with hate as I was, 
to imagine it. No Bella. No killer spawn. And also 
missing as many members of his family as I was able 
to take down. Of course, he could probably put those 
back together, since I wouldn’t be around to burn 
them. Unlike Bella, who would never be whole again. 



405 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I wondered if the creature could be put back together. 
I doubted it. It was part Bella, too 



— so it must have inherited some of her vulnerability. 

I could hear that in the tiny, thrumming beat of its 
heart. 

Its heart was beating. Hers wasn’t. 

Only a second had passed as I made these easy 
decisions. 

The trembling was getting tighter and faster. I coiled 
myself, preparing to spring at the blond vampire and 
rip the murderous thing from her arms with my teeth. 
Rosalie cooed at the creature again, setting the empty 
metal bottle-thing aside and lifting the creature into 
the air to nuzzle her face against its cheek. Perfect. 
The new position was perfect for my strike. I leaned 
forward and felt the heat begin to change me while 
the pull toward the killer grew — it was stronger than 
I’d ever felt it before, so strong it reminded me of an 
Alpha’s command, like it would crush me if I didn’t 
obey. 

This time I wanted to obey. 

The murderer stared past Rosalie’s shoulder at me, 
its gaze more focused than any newborn creature’s 
gaze should be. 

Warm brown eyes, the color of milk chocolate — the 
exact same color that Bella’s had been. 

My shaking jerked to a stop; heat flooded through me, 
stronger than before, but it was a new kind of heat — 
not a burning. 

406 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It was a glowing. 



Everything inside me came undone as I stared at the 
tiny porcelain face of the halfvampire, half- human 
baby. All the lines that held me to my life were sliced 
apart in swift cuts, like clipping the strings to a 
bunch of balloons. Everything that made me who I 
was — my love for the dead girl upstairs, my love for 
my father, my loyalty to my new pack, the love for my 
other brothers, my hatred for my enemies, my home, 
my name, my self — disconnected from me in that 
second — snip, snip, snip — and floated up into space. 

I was not left drifting. A new string held me where I 
was. 

Not one string, but a million. Not strings, but steel 
cables. A million steel cables all tying me to one 
thing — to the very center of the universe. 

I could see that now — how the universe swirled 
around this one point. I’d never seen the symmetry of 
the universe before, but now it was plain. 

The gravity of the earth no longer tied me to the place 
where I stood. It was the baby girl in the blond 
vampire’s arms that held me here now. Renesmee. 

From upstairs, there was a new sound. The only 
sound that could touch me in this endless instant. 

A frantic pounding, a racing beat... 

A changing heart. 



407 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




BOOK THREE 

Bella 



Personal affection is a luxury you can have only after 
all your enemies are eliminated. Until then, everyone 
you love is a hostage, sapping your courage and 
corrupting your judgment. 

Orson Scott Card 

Empire 



408 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




ace 



No longer just a nightmare, the line of black advanced 
on us through the icy mist stirred up by their feet. 

We’re going to die, I thought in panic. I was desperate 
for the precious one I guarded, but even to think of 
that was a lapse in attention I could not afford. They 
ghosted closer, their dark robes billowing slightly with 
the movement. I saw their hands curl into bone- 
colored claws. They drifted apart, angling to come at 
us from all sides. We were outnumbered. It was over. 

And then, like a burst of light from a flash, the whole 
scene was different. Yet nothing changed — the Volturi 
still stalked toward us, poised to kill. All that really 
changed was how the picture looked to me. Suddenly, 
I was hungry for it. I wanted them to charge. The 
panic changed to bloodlust as I crouched forward, a 
smile on my face, and a growl ripped through my 
bared teeth. 



409 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



BURNING 



The pain was bewildering. 

Exactly that — I was bewildered. I couldn’t 
understand, couldn’t make sense of what was 
happening. 

My body tried to reject the pain, and I was sucked 
again and again into a blackness that cut out whole 
seconds or maybe even minutes of the agony, making 
it that much harder to keep up with reality. 

I tried to separate them. 

Non-reality was black, and it didn’t hurt so much. 

Reality was red, and it felt like I was being sawed in 
half, hit by a bus, punched by a prize fighter, 
trampled by bulls, and submerged in acid, all at the 
same time. Reality was feeling my body twist and flip 
when I couldn’t possibly move because of the pain. 

Reality was knowing there was something so much 
more important than all this torture, and not being 
able to remember what it was. 

Reality had come on so fast. 

One moment, everything was as it should have been. 
Surrounded by people I loved. Smiles. Somehow, 
unlikely as it was, it seemed like I was about to get 
everything I’d been fighting for. 



410 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



And then one tiny, inconsequential thing had gone 
wrong. 

I’d watched as my cup tilted, dark blood spilling out 
and staining the perfect white, and I’d lurched toward 
the accident reflexively. I’d seen the other, faster 
hands, but my body had continued to reach, to 
stretch. . . . 

Inside me, something had yanked the opposite 
direction. 

Ripping. Breaking. Agony. 

The darkness had taken over, and then washed away 
to a wave of torture. I couldn’t breathe — I had 
drowned once before, and this was different; it was 
too hot in my throat. Pieces of me shattering, 
snapping, slicing apart. . . . 

More blackness. 

Voices, this time, shouting, as the pain came back. 

“The placenta must have detached!” 

Something sharper than knives ripped through me — 
the words, making sense in spite of the other 
tortures. Detached placenta — I knew what that 
meant. It meant that my baby was dying inside me. 

“Get him out!” I screamed to Edward. Why hadn’t he 
done it yet? “He can’t breathe! Do it now!” 

“The morphine — ” 

He wanted to wait, to give me painkillers, while our 
baby was dying?! 

411 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No! Now — I choked, unable to finish. 

Black spots covered the light in the room as a cold 
point of new pain stabbed icily into my stomach. It 
felt wrong — I struggled automatically to protect my 
womb, my baby, my little Edward Jacob, but I was 
weak. My lungs ached, oxygen burned away. The pain 
faded away again, though I clung to it now. My baby, 
my baby, dying. . . . How long had passed? Seconds 
or minutes? The pain was gone. Numb. I couldn’t feel. 
I still couldn’t see, either, but I could hear. There was 
air in my lungs again, scraping in rough bubbles up 
and down my throat. 

“You stay with me now, Bella! Do you hear me? Stay! 
You’re not leaving me. Keep your heart beating!” 

Jacob? Jacob, still here, still trying to save me. 

Of course, I wanted to tell him. Of course I would 
keep my heart beating. Hadn’t I promised them both? 

I tried to feel my heart, to find it, but I was so lost 
inside my own body. I couldn’t feel the things I 
should, and nothing felt in the right place. I blinked 
and I found my eyes. I could see the light. Not what I 
was looking for, but better than nothing. As my eyes 
struggled to adjust, Edward whispered, “Renesmee.” 

Renesmee? 

Not the pale and perfect son of my imagination? I felt 
a moment of shock. And then a flood of warmth. 

Renesmee. 



412 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I willed my lips to move, willed the bubbles of air to 
turn into whispers on my tongue. I forced my numb 
hands to reach. 

“Let me... Give her to me.” 

The light danced, shattering off Edward’s crystal 
hands. The sparkles were tinged with red, with the 
blood that covered his skin. And more red in his 
hands. Something small and struggling, dripping with 
blood. He touched the warm body to my weak arms, 
almost like I was holding her. Her wet skin was hot — 
as hot as Jacob’s. My eyes focused; suddenly 
everything was absolutely clear. 

Renesmee did not cry, but she breathed in quick, 
startled pants. Her eyes were open, her expression so 
shocked it was almost funny. The little, perfectly 
round head was covered in a thick layer of matted, 
bloody curls. Her irises were a familiar — but 
astonishing — 

chocolate brown. Under the blood, her skin looked 
pale, a creamy ivory. All besides her cheeks, which 
flamed with color. 

Her tiny face was so absolutely perfect that it stunned 
me. She was even more beautiful than her father. 
Unbelievable. Impossible. 

“Renesmee,” I whispered. “So... beautiful.” 

The impossible face suddenly smiled — a wide, 
deliberate smile. Behind the shell-pink lips was a full 
complement of snowy milk teeth. 



413 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She leaned her head down, against my chest, 
burrowing against the warmth. Her skin was warm 
and silky, but it didn’t give the way mine did. 

Then there was pain again — just one warm slash of it. 
I gasped. 

And she was gone. My angel-faced baby was nowhere. 
I couldn’t see or feel her. No! I wanted to shout. Give 
her back to me! 

But the weakness was too much. My arms felt like 
empty rubber hoses for a moment, and then they felt 
like nothing at all. I couldn’t feel them. I couldn’t feel 
me. The blackness rushed over my eyes more solidly 
than before. Like a thick blindfold, firm and fast. 
Covering not just my eyes but also my self with a 
crushing weight. It was exhausting to push against it. 
I knew it would be so much easier to give in. To let 
the blackness push me down, down, down to a place 
where there was no pain and no weariness and no 
worry and no fear. 

If it had only been for myself, I wouldn’t have been 
able to struggle very long. I was only human, with no 
more than human strength. I’d been trying to keep up 
with the supernatural for too long, like Jacob had 
said. 

But this wasn’t just about me. 

If I did the easy thing now, let the black nothingness 
erase me, I would hurt them. Edward. Edward. My life 
and his were twisted into a single strand. Cut one, 
and you cut both. If he were gone, I would not be able 
to live through that. If I were gone, he wouldn’t live 



414 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




through it, either. And a world without Edward 
seemed completely pointless. Edward had to exist. 



Jacob — who’d said goodbye to me over and over but 
kept coming back when I needed him. Jacob, who I’d 
wounded so many times it was criminal. Would I hurt 
him again, the worst way yet? He’d stayed for me, 
despite everything. Now all he asked was that I stay 
for him. 

But it was so dark here that I couldn’t see either of 
their faces. Nothing seemed real. That made it hard 
not to give up. 

I kept pushing against the black, though, almost a 
reflex. I wasn’t trying to lift it. I was just resisting. Not 
allowing it to crush me completely. I wasn’t Atlas, and 
the black felt as heavy as a planet; I couldn’t shoulder 
it. All I could do was not be entirely obliterated. 

It was sort of the pattern to my life — I’d never been 
strong enough to deal with the things outside my 
control, to attack the enemies or outrun them. To 
avoid the pain. Always human and weak, the only 
thing I’d ever been able to do was keep going. Endure. 
Survive. 

It had been enough up to this point. It would have to 
be enough today. I would endure this until help came. 

I knew Edward would be doing everything he could. 

He would not give up. Neither would I. 

I held the blackness of nonexistence at bay by inches. 

It wasn’t enough, though — that determination. As the 
time ground on and on and the darkness gained by 

415 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




tiny eighths and sixteenths of my inches, I needed 
something more to draw strength from. 

I couldn’t pull even Edward’s face into view. Not 
Jacob’s, not Alice’s or Rosalie’s or Charlie’s or Renee’s 
or Carlisle’s or Esme’s... Nothing. It terrified me, and I 
wondered if it was too late. 

I felt myself slipping — there was nothing to hold on to. 

No! I had to survive this. Edward was depending on 
me. Jacob. Charlie Alice Rosalie Carlisle Renee 
Esme... 

Renesmee. 

And then, though I still couldn’t see anything, 
suddenly I could feel something. Like phantom limbs, 

I imagined I could feel my arms again. And in them, 
something small and hard and very, very warm. 

My baby. My little nudger. 

I had done it. Against the odds, I had been strong 
enough to survive Renesmee, to hold on to her until 
she was strong enough to live without me. 

That spot of heat in my phantom arms felt so real. I 
clutched it closer. It was exactly where my heart 
should be. Holding tight the warm memory of my 
daughter, I knew that I would be able to fight the 
darkness as long as I needed to. 

The warmth beside my heart got more and more real, 
warmer and warmer. Hotter. The heat was so real it 
was hard to believe that I was imagining it. Hotter. 



416 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Uncomfortable now. Too hot. Much, much too hot. 

Like grabbing the wrong end of a curling iron — my 
automatic response was to drop the scorching thing 
in my arms. But there was nothing in my arms. My 
arms were not curled to my chest. My arms were dead 
things lying somewhere at my side. The heat was 
inside me. 

The burning grew — rose and peaked and rose again 
until it surpassed anything I’d ever felt. 

I felt the pulse behind the fire raging now in my chest 
and realized that I’d found my heart again, just in 
time to wish I never had. To wish that I’d embraced 
the blackness while I’d still had the chance. I wanted 
to raise my arms and claw my chest open and rip the 
heart from it — anything to get rid of this torture. But I 
couldn’t feel my arms, couldn’t move one vanished 
finger. 

James, snapping my leg under his foot. That was 
nothing. That was a soft place to rest on a feather 
bed. I’d take that now, a hundred times. A hundred 
snaps. I’d take it and be grateful. 

The baby, kicking my ribs apart, breaking her way 
through me piece by piece. That was nothing. That 
was floating in a pool of cool water. I’d take it a 
thousand times. Take it and be grateful. 

The fire blazed hotter and I wanted to scream. To beg 
for someone to kill me now, before I lived one more 
second in this pain. But I couldn’t move my lips. The 
weight was still there, pressing on me. 



417 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I realized it wasn’t the darkness holding me down; it 
was my body. So heavy. Burying me in the flames 
that were chewing their way out from my heart now, 
spreading with impossible pain through my shoulders 
and stomach, scalding their way up my throat, licking 
at my face. 

Why couldn’t I move? Why couldn’t I scream? This 
wasn’t part of the stories. My mind was unbearably 
clear — sharpened by the fierce pain — and I saw the 
answer almost as soon as I could form the questions. 

The morphine. 

It seemed like a million deaths ago that we’d 
discussed it — Edward, Carlisle, and I. Edward and 
Carlisle had hoped that enough painkillers would 
help fight the pain of the venom. Carlisle had tried 
with Emmett, but the venom had burned ahead of the 
medicine, sealing his veins. There hadn’t been time 
for it to spread. I’d kept my face smooth and nodded 
and thanked my rarely lucky stars that Edward could 
not read my mind. 

Because I’d had morphine and venom together in my 
system before, and I knew the truth. I knew the 
numbness of the medicine was completely irrelevant 
while the venom seared through my veins. But there ’d 
been no way I was going to mention that fact. Nothing 
that would make him more unwilling to change me. 

I hadn’t guessed that the morphine would have this 
effect — that it would pin me down and gag me. Hold 
me paralyzed while I burned. 



418 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I knew all the stories. I knew that Carlisle had kept 
quiet enough to avoid discovery while he burned. I 
knew that, according to Rosalie, it did no good to 
scream. And I’d hoped that maybe I could be like 
Carlisle. That I would believe Rosalie’s words and 
keep my mouth shut. Because I knew that every 
scream that escaped my lips would torment Edward. 

Now it seemed like a hideous joke that I was getting 
my wish fulfilled. If I couldn’t scream, how could I tell 
them to kill me? 

All I wanted was to die. To never have been born. The 
whole of my existence did not outweigh this pain. 
Wasn’t worth living through it for one more heartbeat. 
Let me die, let me die, let me die. 

And, for a never-ending space, that was all there was. 
Just the fiery torture, and my soundless shrieks, 
pleading for death to come. Nothing else, not even 
time. So that made it infinite, with no beginning and 
no end. One infinite moment of pain. The only change 
came when suddenly, impossibly, my pain was 
doubled. The lower half of my body, deadened since 
before the morphine, was suddenly on fire, too. Some 
broken connection had been healed — knitted together 
by the scorching fingers of the flame. 

The endless burn raged on. 

It could have been seconds or days, weeks or years, 
but, eventually, time came to mean something again. 

Three things happened together, grew from each other 
so that I didn’t know which came first: time restarted, 
the morphine’s weight faded, and I got stronger. I 



419 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




could feel the control of my body come back to me in 
increments, and those increments were my first 
markers of the time passing. I knew it when I was 
able to twitch my toes and twist my fingers into fists. I 
knew it, but I did not act on it. Though the fire did 
not decrease one tiny degree — in fact, I began to 
develop a new capacity for experiencing it, a new 
sensitivity to appreciate, separately, each blistering 
tongue of flame that licked through my veins — I 
discovered that I could think around it. I could 
remember why I shouldn’t scream. I could remember 
the reason why I’d committed to enduring this 
unendurable agony. I could remember that, though it 
felt impossible now, there was something that might 
be worth the torture. This happened just in time for 
me to hold on when the weights left my body. To 
anyone watching me, there would be no change. But 
for me, as I struggled to keep the screams and 
thrashing locked up inside my body, where they 
couldn’t hurt anyone else, it felt like I’d gone from 
being tied to the stake as I burned, to gripping that 
stake to hold myself in the fire. 

I had just enough strength to lie there unmoving 
while I was charred alive. My hearing got clearer and 
clearer, and I could count the frantic, pounding beats 
of my heart to mark the time. 

I could count the shallow breaths that gasped 
through my teeth. I could count the low, even breaths 
that came from somewhere close beside me. These 
moved slowest, so I concentrated on them. They 
meant the most time passing. More even than a 



420 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




clock’s pendulum, those breaths pulled me through 
the burning seconds toward the end. 

I continued to get stronger, my thoughts clearer. 
When new noises came, I could listen. There were 
light footsteps, the whisper of air stirred by an 
opening door. The footsteps got closer, and I felt 
pressure against the inside of my wrist. I couldn’t feel 
the coolness of the fingers. The fire blistered away 
every memory of cool. 

“Still no change?” 

“None.” 

The lightest pressure, breath against my scorched 
skin. 

“There’s no scent of the morphine left.” 

“I know.” 

“Bella? Can you hear me?” 

I knew, beyond all doubt, that if I unlocked my teeth I 
would lose it — I would shriek and screech and writhe 
and thrash. If I opened my eyes, if I so much as 
twitched a finger — any change at all would be the end 
of my control. 

“Bella? Bella, love? Can you open your eyes? Can you 
squeeze my hand?” 

Pressure on my fingers. It was harder not to answer 
this voice, but I stayed paralyzed. I knew that the 
pain in his voice now was nothing compared to what 



421 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




it could be. Right now he only feared that I was 
suffering. 

“Maybe... Carlisle, maybe I was too late.” His voice 
was muffled; it broke on the word late. 

My resolve wavered for a second. 

“Listen to her heart, Edward. It’s stronger than even 
Emmett’s was. I’ve never heard anything so vital. 

She’ll be perfect.” 

Yes, I was right to keep quiet. Carlisle would reassure 
him. He didn’t need to suffer with me. 

“And her — her spine?” 

“Her injuries weren’t so much worse than Esme’s. The 
venom will heal her as it did Esme.” 

“But she’s so still. I must have done something 
wrong.” 

“Or something right, Edward. Son, you did everything 
I could have and more. I’m not sure I would have had 
the persistence, the faith it took to save her. Stop 
berating yourself. Bella is going to be fine.” 

A broken whisper. “She must be in agony.” 

“We don’t know that. She had so much morphine in 
her system. We don’t know the effect that will have on 
her experience.” 

Faint pressure inside the crease of my elbow. Another 
whisper. “Bella, I love you. Bella, I’m sorry.” 



422 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I wanted so much to answer him, but I wouldn’t make 
his pain worse. Not while I had the strength to hold 
myself still. 

Through all this, the racking fire went right on 
burning me. But there was so much space in my head 
now. Room to ponder their conversation, room to 
remember what had happened, room to look ahead to 
the future, with still endless room left over to suffer 
in. Also room to worry. 

Where was my baby? Why wasn’t she here? Why 
weren’t they talking about her? 

“No, I’m staying right here,” Edward whispered, 
answering an unspoken thought. 

“They’ll sort it out.” 

“An interesting situation,” Carlisle responded. “And 
I’d thought I’d seen just about everything.” 

“I’ll deal with it later. We’ll deal with it.” Something 
pressed softly to my blistering palm. 

“I’m sure, between the five of us, we can keep it from 
turning into bloodshed.” 

Edward sighed. “I don’t know which side to take. I’d 
love to flog them both. Well, later.” 

“I wonder what Bella will think — whose side she’ll 
take,” Carlisle mused. One low, strained chuckle. “I’m 
sure she’ll surprise me. She always does.” 



423 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Carlisle’s footsteps faded away again, and I was 
frustrated that there was no further explanation. 

Were they talking so mysteriously just to annoy me? 

I went back to counting Edward’s breaths to mark the 
time. 

Ten thousand, nine hundred forty-three breaths later, 
a different set of footsteps whispered into the room. 
Lighter. More... rhythmic. 

Strange that I could distinguish the minute 
differences between footsteps that I’d never been able 
to hear at all before today. 

“How much longer?” Edward asked. 

“It won’t be long now,” Alice told him. “See how clear 
she’s becoming? I can see her so much better.” She 
sighed. 

“Still feeling a little bitter?” 

“Yes, thanks so much for bringing it up,” she 
grumbled. “You would be mortified, too, if you 
realized that you were handcuffed by your own 
nature. I see vampires best, because I am one; I see 
humans okay, because I was one. But I can’t see 
these odd halfbreeds at all because they’re nothing 
I’ve experienced. Bah!” 

“Focus, Alice.” 

“Right. Bella’s almost too easy to see now.” 

There was a long moment of silence, and then Edward 
sighed. It was a new sound, happier. 



424 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She’s really going to be fine,” he breathed. 



“Of course she is.” 

“You weren’t so sanguine two days ago.” 

“I couldn’t see right two days ago. But now that she’s 
free of all the blind spots, it’s a piece of cake.” 

“Could you concentrate for me? On the clock — give 
me an estimate.” 

Alice sighed. “So impatient. Fine. Give me a sec — ” 
Quiet breathing. 

“Thank you, Alice.” His voice was brighter. 

How long? Couldn’t they at least say it aloud for me? 
Was that too much to ask? How many more seconds 
would I burn? Ten thousand? Twenty? Another day — 
eighty-six thousand, four hundred? More than that? 

“She’s going to be dazzling.” 

Edward growled quietly. “She always has been.” 

Alice snorted. “You know what I mean. Look at her.” 

Edward didn’t answer, but Alice’s words gave me 
hope that maybe I didn’t resemble the charcoal 
briquette I felt like. It seemed as if I must be just a 
pile of charred bones by now. Every cell in my body 
had been razed to ash. 

I heard Alice breeze out of the room. I heard the swish 
of the fabric she moved, rubbing against itself. I heard 
the quiet buzz of the light hanging from the ceiling. I 
heard the faint wind brushing against the outside of 

425 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the house. I could hear everything. Downstairs, 
someone was watching a ball game. The Mariners 
were winning by two runs. 

“It’s my turn,” I heard Rosalie snap at someone, and 
there was a low snarl in response. 

“Hey, now,” Emmett cautioned. 

Someone hissed. 

I listened for more, but there was nothing but the 
game. Baseball was not interesting enough to distract 
me from the pain, so I listened to Edward’s breathing 
again, counting the seconds. 

Twenty-one thousand, nine hundred seventeen and a 
half seconds later, the pain changed. 

On the good-news side of things, it started to fade 
from my fingertips and toes. Fading slowly, but at 
least it was doing something new. This had to be it. 
The pain was on its way out.... 

And then the bad news. The fire in my throat wasn’t 
the same as before. I wasn’t only on fire, but I was 
now parched, too. Dry as bone. So thirsty. Burning 
fire, and burning thirst... 

Also bad news: The fire inside my heart got hotter. 
How was that possible? 

My heartbeat, already too fast, picked up — the fire 
drove its rhythm to a new frantic pace. 



426 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Carlisle,” Edward called. His voice was low but clear. 
I knew that Carlisle would hear it, if he were in or 
near the house. 

The fire retreated from my palms, leaving them 
blissfully pain-free and cool. But it retreated to my 
heart, which blazed hot as the sun and beat at a 
furious new speed. Carlisle entered the room, Alice at 
his side. Their footsteps were so distinct, I could even 
tell that Carlisle was on the right, and a foot ahead of 
Alice. 

“Listen,” Edward told them. 

The loudest sound in the room was my frenzied heart, 
pounding to the rhythm of the fire. 

“Ah,” Carlisle said. “It’s almost over.” 

My relief at his words was overshadowed by the 
excruciating pain in my heart. My wrists were free, 
though, and my ankles. The fire was totally 
extinguished there. 

“Soon,” Alice agreed eagerly. “I’ll get the others. 

Should I have Rosalie... ?” 

“Yes — keep the baby away.” 

What? No. No! What did he mean, keep my baby 
away? What was he thinking? 

My fingers twitched — the irritation breaking through 
my perfect fapade. The room went silent besides the 
jack-hammering of my heart as they all stopped 
breathing for a second in response. 



427 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




A hand squeezed my wayward fingers. “Bella? Bella, 
love?” 

Could I answer him without screaming? I considered 
that for a moment, and then the fire ripped hotter still 
through my chest, draining in from my elbows and 
knees. Better not to chance it. 

“I’ll bring them right up,” Alice said, an urgent edge to 
her tone, and I heard the swish of wind as she darted 
away. 

And then — oh! 

My heart took off, beating like helicopter blades, the 
sound almost a single sustained note; it felt like it 
would grind through my ribs. The fire flared up in the 
center of my chest, sucking the last remnants of the 
flames from the rest of my body to fuel the most 
scorching blaze yet. The pain was enough to stun me, 
to break through my iron grip on the stake. My back 
arched, bowed as if the fire was dragging me upward 
by my heart. I allowed no other piece of my body to 
break rank as my torso slumped back to the table. 

It became a battle inside me — my sprinting heart 
racing against the attacking fire. Both were losing. 

The fire was doomed, having consumed everything 
that was combustible; my heart galloped toward its 
last beat. 

The fire constricted, concentrating inside that one 
remaining human organ with a final, unbearable 
surge. The surge was answered by a deep, hollow- 
sounding thud. My heart stuttered twice, and then 



428 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




thudded quietly again just once more. There was no 
sound. No breathing. Not even mine. 

For a moment, the absence of pain was all I could 
comprehend. 

And then I opened my eyes and gazed above me in 
wonder. 



429 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





Everything was so clear. 

Sharp. Defined. 

The brilliant light overhead was still blinding-bright, 
and yet I could plainly see the glowing strands of the 
filaments inside the bulb. I could see each color of the 
rainbow in the white light, and, at the very edge of the 
spectrum, an eighth color I had no name for. Behind 
the light, I could distinguish the individual grains in 
the dark wood ceiling above. In front of it, I could see 
the dust motes in the air, the sides the light touched, 
and the dark sides, distinct and separate. They spun 
like little planets, moving around each other in a 
celestial dance. 

The dust was so beautiful that I inhaled in shock; the 
air whistled down my throat, swirling the motes into a 
vortex. The action felt wrong. I considered, and 
realized the problem was that there was no relief tied 
to the action. I didn’t need the air. My lungs weren’t 
waiting for it. They reacted indifferently to the influx. I 
did not need the air, but I liked it. In it, I could taste 
the room around me — taste the lovely dust motes, the 
mix of the stagnant air mingling with the flow of 
slightly cooler air from the open door. Taste a lush 
whiff of silk. Taste a faint hint of something warm and 
desirable, something that should be moist, but 
wasn’t.... That smell made my throat burn dryly, a 
faint echo of the venom burn, though the scent was 
tainted by the bite of chlorine and ammonia. And 
430 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



most of all, I could taste an almost-honey-lilac-and- 
sunflavored scent that was the strongest thing, the 
closest thing to me. I heard the sound of the others, 
breathing again now that I did. Their breath mixed 
with the scent that was something just off honey and 
lilac and sunshine, bringing new flavors. Cinnamon, 
hyacinth, pear, seawater, rising bread, pine, vanilla, 
leather, apple, moss, lavender, chocolate.... I traded a 
dozen different comparisons in my mind, but none of 
them fit exactly. So sweet and pleasant. 

The TV downstairs had been muted, and I heard 
someone — Rosalie? — shift her weight on the first floor. 

I also heard a faint, thudding rhythm, with a voice 
shouting angrily to the beat. Rap music? I was 
mystified for a moment, and then the sound faded 
away like a car passing by with the windows rolled 
down. 

With a start, I realized that this could be exactly right. 
Could I hear all the way to the freeway? 

I didn’t realize someone was holding my hand until 
whoever it was squeezed it lightly. Like it had before 
to hide the pain, my body locked down again in 
surprise. This was not a touch I expected. The skin 
was perfectly smooth, but it was the wrong 
temperature. Not cold. 

After that first frozen second of shock, my body 
responded to the unfamiliar touch in a way that 
shocked me even more. 

Air hissed up my throat, spitting through my 
clenched teeth with a low, menacing sound like a 



431 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




swarm of bees. Before the sound was out, my muscles 
bunched and arched, twisting away from the 
unknown. I flipped off my back in a spin so fast it 
should have turned the room into an 
incomprehensible blur — but it did not. I saw every 
dust mote, every splinter in the wood-paneled walls, 
every loose thread in microscopic detail as my eyes 
whirled past them. 

So by the time I found myself crouched against the 
wall defensively — about a sixteenth of a second later — 
I already understood what had startled me, and that I 
had overreacted. 

Oh. Of course. Edward wouldn’t feel cold to me. We 
were the same temperature now. I held my pose for 
an eighth of a second longer, adjusting to the scene 
before me. Edward was leaning across the operating 
table that had been my pyre, his hand reached out 
toward me, his expression anxious. 

Edward’s face was the most important thing, but my 
peripheral vision catalogued everything else, just in 
case. Some instinct to defend had been triggered, and 
I automatically searched for any sign of danger. 

My vampire family waited cautiously against the far 
wall by the door, Emmett and Jasper in the front. 

Like there was danger. My nostrils flared, searching 
for the threat. I could smell nothing out of place. That 
faint scent of something delicious — but marred by 
harsh chemicals — tickled my throat again, setting it 
to aching and burning. Alice was peeking around 
Jasper’s elbow with a huge grin on her face; the light 
sparkled off her teeth, another eight-color rainbow. 



432 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




That grin reassured me and then put the pieces 
together. Jasper and Emmett were in the front to 
protect the others, as I had assumed. What I hadn’t 
grasped immediately was that I was the danger. 

All this was a sideline. The greater part of my senses 
and my mind were still focused on Edward’s face. 

I had never seen it before this second. 

How many times had I stared at Edward and 
marveled over his beauty? How many hours — days, 
weeks — of my life had I spent dreaming about what I 
then deemed to be perfection? I thought I’d known his 
face better than my own. I’d thought this was the one 
sure physical thing in my whole world: the 
flawlessness of Edward’s face. I may as well have 
been blind. 

For the first time, with the dimming shadows and 
limiting weakness of humanity taken off my eyes, I 
saw his face. I gasped and then struggled with my 
vocabulary, unable to find the right words. I needed 
better words. 

At this point, the other part of my attention had 
ascertained that there was no danger here besides 
myself, and I automatically straightened out of my 
crouch; almost a whole second had passed since I’d 
been on the table. 

I was momentarily preoccupied by the way my body 
moved. The instant I’d considered standing erect, I 
was already straight. There was no brief fragment of 
time in which the action occurred; change was 
instantaneous, almost as if there was no movement at 



433 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




all. I continued to stare at Edward’s face, motionless 
again. 

He moved slowly around the table — each step taking 
nearly half a second, each step flowing sinuously like 
river water weaving over smooth stones — his hand 
still outstretched. 

I watched the grace of his advance, absorbing it with 
my new eyes. 

“Bella?” he asked in a low, calming tone, but the 
worry in his voice layered my name with tension. 

I could not answer immediately, lost as I was in the 
velvet folds of his voice. It was the most perfect 
symphony, a symphony in one instrument, an 
instrument more profound than any created by man. 



“Bella, love? I’m sorry, I know it’s disorienting. But 
you’re all right. Everything is fine.” 

Everything? My mind spun out, spiraling back to my 
last human hour. Already, the memory seemed dim, 
like I was watching through a thick, dark veil — 
because my human eyes had been half blind. 
Everything had been so blurred. When he said 
everything was fine, did that include Renesmee? 
Where was she? With Rosalie? I tried to remember her 
face — I knew that she had been beautiful — but it was 
irritating to try to see through the human memories. 
Her face was shrouded in darkness, so poorly lit. . . . 



434 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




What about Jacob? Was he fine? Did my long- 
suffering best friend hate me now? Had he gone back 
to Sam’s pack? Seth and Leah, too? 

Were the Cullens safe, or had my transformation 
ignited the war with the pack? Did Edward’s blanket 
assurance cover all of that? Or was he just trying to 
calm me? 

And Charlie? What would I tell him now? He must 
have called while I was burning. What had they told 
him? What did he think had happened to me? 

As I deliberated for one small piece of a second over 
which question to ask first, Edward reached out 
tentatively and stroked his fingertips across my 
cheek. Smooth as satin, soft as a feather, and now 
exactly matched to the temperature of my skin. His 
touch seemed to sweep beneath the surface of my 
skin, right through the bones of my face. The feeling 
was tingly, electric — it jolted through my bones, down 
my spine, and trembled in my stomach. 

Wait, I thought as the trembling blossomed into a 
warmth, a yearning. Wasn’t I supposed to lose this? 
Wasn’t giving up this feeling a part of the bargain? 

I was a newborn vampire. The dry, scorching ache in 
my throat gave proof to that. And I knew what being a 
newborn entailed. Human emotions and longings 
would come back to me later in some form, but I’d 
accepted that I would not feel them in the beginning. 
Only thirst. That was the deal, the price. I’d agreed to 
pay it. But as Edward’s hand curled to the shape of 
my face like satin-covered steel, desire raced through 
my dried-out veins, singing from my scalp to my toes. 
435 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He arched one perfect eyebrow, waiting for me to 
speak. 

I threw my arms around him. 

Again, it was like there was no movement. One 
moment I stood straight and still as a statue; in the 
same instant, he was in my arms. 

Warm — or at least, that was my perception. With the 
sweet, delicious scent that I’d never been able to 
really take in with my dull human senses, but that 
was one hundred percent Edward. I pressed my face 
into his smooth chest. 

And then he shifted his weight uncomfortably. Leaned 
away from my embrace. I stared up at his face, 
confused and frightened by the rejection. 

“Um... carefully, Bella. Ow.” 

I yanked my arms away, folding them behind my back 
as soon as I understood. I was too strong. 

“Oops,” I mouthed. 

He smiled the kind of smile that would have stopped 
my heart if it were still beating. 

“Don’t panic, love,” he said, lifting his hand to touch 
my lips, parted in horror. “You’re just a bit stronger 
than I am for the moment.” 

My eyebrows pushed together. I’d known this, too, 
but it felt more surreal than any other part of this 
ultimately surreal moment. I was stronger than 
Edward. I’d made him say ow. 



436 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




His hand stroked my cheek again, and I all but forgot 
my distress as another wave of desire rippled through 
my motionless body. 

These emotions were so much stronger than I was 
used to that it was hard to stick to one train of 
thought despite the extra room in my head. Each new 
sensation overwhelmed me. I remembered Edward 
saying once — his voice in my head a weak shadow 
compared to the crystal, musical clarity I was hearing 
now — that his kind, our kind, were easily distracted. I 
could see why. 

I made a concerted effort to focus. There was 
something I needed to say. The most important thing. 

Very carefully, so carefully that the movement was 
actually discernible, I brought my right arm out from 
behind my back and raised my hand to touch his 
cheek. I refused to let myself be sidetracked by the 
pearly color of my hand or by the smooth silk of his 
skin or by the charge that zinged in my fingertips. 

I stared into his eyes and heard my own voice for the 
first time. 

“I love you,” I said, but it sounded like singing. My 
voice rang and shimmered like a bell. 

His answering smile dazzled me more than it ever had 
when I was human; I could really see it now. 

“As I love you,” he told me. 

He took my face between his hands and leaned his 
face to mine — slow enough to remind me to be 
careful. He kissed me, soft as a whisper at first, and 

437 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




then suddenly stronger, fiercer. I tried to remember to 
be gentle with him, but it was hard work to remember 
anything in the onslaught of sensation, hard to hold 
on to any coherent thoughts. 

It was like he’d never kissed me — like this was our 
first kiss. And, in truth, he’d never kissed me this way 
before. 

It almost made me feel guilty. Surely I was in breach 
of the contract. I couldn’t be allowed to have this, too. 

Though I didn’t need oxygen, my breathing sped, 
raced as fast as it had when I was burning. This was 
a different kind of fire. 

Someone cleared his throat. Emmett. I recognized the 
deep sound at once, joking and annoyed at the same 
time. 

I’d forgotten we weren’t alone. And then I realized that 
the way I was curved around Edward now was not 
exactly polite for company. 

Embarrassed, I half-stepped away in another 
instantaneous movement. Edward chuckled and 
stepped with me, keeping his arms tight around my 
waist. His face was glowing — like a white flame 
burned from behind his diamond skin. I took an 
unnecessary breath to settle myself. 

How different this kissing was! I read his expression 
as I compared the indistinct human memories to this 
clear, intense feeling. He looked... a little smug. 

“You’ve been holding out on me,” I accused in my 
singing voice, my eyes narrowing a tiny bit. 

438 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed, radiant with relief that it was all over — 
the fear, the pain, the uncertainties, the waiting, all of 
it behind us now. “It was sort of necessary at the 
time,” he reminded me. “Now it’s your turn to not 
break me.” He laughed again. I frowned as I 
considered that, and then Edward was not the only 
one laughing. Carlisle stepped around Emmett and 
walked toward me swiftly; his eyes were only slightly 
wary, but Jasper shadowed his footsteps. I’d never 
seen Carlisle’s face before either, not really. I had an 
odd urge to blink — like I was staring at the sun. 

“How do you feel, Bella?” Carlisle asked. 

I considered that for a sixty-fourth of a second. 

“Overwhelmed. There’s so much. ...” I trailed off, 
listening to the bell-tone of my voice again. 

“Yes, it can be quite confusing.” 

I nodded one fast, jerky bob. “But I feel like me. Sort 
of. I didn’t expect that.” 

Edward’s arms squeezed lightly around my waist. “I 
told you so,” he whispered. 

“You are quite controlled,” Carlisle mused. “More so 
than I expected, even with the time you had to 
prepare yourself mentally for this.” 

I thought about the wild mood swings, the difficulty 
concentrating, and whispered, “I’m not sure about 
that.” 

He nodded seriously, and then his jeweled eyes 
glittered with interest. “It seems like we did something 



439 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




right with the morphine this time. Tell me, what do 
you remember of the transformation process?” 

I hesitated, intensely aware of Edward’s breath 
brushing against my cheek, sending whispers of 
electricity through my skin. 

“Everything was... very dim before. I remember the 
baby couldn’t breathe. ...” 

I looked at Edward, momentarily frightened by the 
memory. 

“Renesmee is healthy and well,” he promised, a gleam 
I’d never seen before in his eyes. He said her name 
with an understated fervor. A reverence. The way 
devout people talked about their gods. “What do you 
remember after that?” 

I focused on my poker face. I’d never been much of a 
liar. “It’s hard to remember. It was so dark before. 

And then... I opened my eyes and I could see 
everything.” 

“Amazing,” Carlisle breathed, his eyes alight. 

Chagrin washed through me, and I waited for the 
heat to burn in my cheeks and give me away. And 
then I remembered that I would never blush again. 
Maybe that would protect Edward from the truth. 

I’d have to find a way to tip off Carlisle, though. 
Someday. If he ever needed to create another vampire. 
That possibility seemed very unlikely, which made me 
feel better about lying. 



440 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I want you to think — to tell me everything you 
remember,” Carlisle pressed excitedly, and I couldn’t 
help the grimace that flashed across my face. I didn’t 
want to have to keep lying, because I might slip up. 
And I didn’t want to think about the burning. Unlike 
the human memories, that part was perfectly clear 
and I found I could remember it with far too much 
precision. 

“Oh, I’m so sorry, Bella,” Carlisle apologized 
immediately. “Of course your thirst must be very 
uncomfortable. This conversation can wait.” 

Until he’d mentioned it, the thirst actually wasn’t 
unmanageable. There was so much room in my head. 
A separate part of my brain was keeping tabs on the 
burn in my throat, almost like a reflex. The way my 
old brain had handled breathing and blinking. But 
Carlisle’s assumption brought the burn to the 
forefront of my mind. Suddenly, the dry ache was all I 
could think about, and the more I thought about it, 
the more it hurt. My hand flew up to cup my throat, 
like I could smother the flames from the outside. The 
skin of my neck was strange beneath my fingers. So 
smooth it was somehow soft, though it was hard as 
stone, too. 

Edward dropped his arms and took my other hand, 
tugging gently. “Let’s hunt, Bella.” 

My eyes opened wider and the pain of the thirst 
receded, shock taking its place. Me? Hunt? With 
Edward? But... how? I didn’t know what to do. He 
read the alarm in my expression and smiled 
encouragingly. “It’s quite easy, love. Instinctual. Don’t 



441 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




worry, I’ll show you.” When I didn’t move, he grinned 
his crooked smile and raised his eyebrows. “I was 
under the impression that you’d always wanted to see 
me hunt.” 

I laughed in a short burst of humor (part of me 
listened in wonder to the pealing bell sound) as his 
words reminded me of cloudy human conversations. 
And then I took a whole second to run quickly 
through those first days with Edward — the true 
beginning of my life — in my head so that I would 
never forget them. I did not expect that it would be so 
uncomfortable to remember. Like trying to squint 
through muddy water. I knew from Rosalie’s 
experience that if I thought of my human memories 
enough, I would not lose them over time. I did not 
want to forget one minute I’d spent with Edward, even 
now, when eternity stretched in front of us. I would 
have to make sure those human memories were 
cemented into my infallible vampire mind. 

“Shall we?” Edward asked. He reached up to take the 
hand that was still at my neck. His fingers smoothed 
down the column of my throat. “I don’t want you to be 
hurting,” he added in a low murmur. Something I 
would not have been able to hear before. 

“I’m fine,” I said out of lingering human habit. “Wait. 
First.” 

There was so much. I’d never gotten to my questions. 
There were more important things than the ache. 

It was Carlisle who spoke now. “Yes?” 

“I want to see her. Renesmee.” 



442 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It was oddly difficult to say her name. My daughter; 
these words were even harder to think. It all seemed 
so distant. I tried to remember how I had felt three 
days ago, and automatically, my hands pulled free of 
Edward’s and dropped to my stomach. Flat. Empty. I 
clutched at the pale silk that covered my skin, 
panicking again, while an insignificant part of my 
mind noted that Alice must have dressed me. I knew 
there was nothing left inside me, and I faintly 
remembered the bloody removal scene, but the 
physical proof was still hard to process. All I knew 
was loving my little nudger inside of me. Outside of 
me, she seemed like something I must have imagined. 
A fading dream — a dream that was half nightmare. 

While I wrestled with my confusion, I saw Edward 
and Carlisle exchange a guarded glance. 

“What?” I demanded. 

“Bella,” Edward said soothingly. “That’s not really a 
good idea. She’s half human, love. Her heart beats, 
and blood runs in her veins. Until your thirst is 
positively under control... You don’t want to put her 
in danger, do you?” 

I frowned. Of course I must not want that. 

Was I out of control? Confused, yes. Easily 
unfocused, yes. But dangerous? To her? My 
daughter? 

I couldn’t be positive that the answer was no. So I 
would have to be patient. That sounded difficult. 
Because until I saw her again, she wouldn’t be real. 
Just a fading dream... of a stranger... 



443 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Where is she?” I listened hard, and then I could hear 
the beating heart on the floor below me. I could hear 
more than one person breathing — quietly, like they 
were listening, too. There was also a fluttering sound, 
a thrumming, that I couldn’t place. . . . And the 
sound of the heartbeat was so moist and appealing, 
that my mouth started watering. 

So I would definitely have to learn how to hunt before 
I saw her. My stranger baby. 

“Is Rosalie with her?” 

“Yes,” Edward answered in a clipped tone, and I could 
see that something he’d thought of upset him. I’d 
thought he and Rose were over their differences. Had 
the animosity erupted again? Before I could ask, he 
pulled my hands away from my flat stomach, tugging 
gently again. 

“Wait,” I protested again, trying to focus. “What about 
Jacob? And Charlie? Tell me everything that I missed. 
How long was I... unconscious?” 

Edward didn’t seem to notice my hesitation over the 
last word. Instead, he was exchanging another wary 
glance with Carlisle. 

“What’s wrong?” I whispered. 

“Nothing is wrong,” Carlisle told me, emphasizing the 
last word in a strange way. 

“Nothing has changed much, actually — you were only 
unaware for just over two days. It was very fast, as 
these things go. Edward did an excellent job. Quite 
innovative — the venom injection straight to your heart 

444 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




was his idea.” He paused to smile proudly at his son 
and then sighed. “Jacob is still here, and Charlie still 
believes that you are sick. He thinks you’re in Atlanta 
right now, undergoing tests at the CDC. We gave him 
a bad number, and he’s frustrated. He’s been 
speaking to Esme.” 

“I should call him...,” I murmured to myself, but, 
listening to my own voice, I understood the new 
difficulties. He wouldn’t recognize this voice. It 
wouldn’t reassure him. And then the earlier surprise 
intruded. “Hold on — Jacob is still here?” 

Another glance between them. 

“Bella,” Edward said quickly. “There’s much to 
discuss, but we should take care of you first. You 
have to be in pain. ...” 

When he pointed that out, I remembered the burn in 
my throat and swallowed convulsively. “But Jacob — ” 

“We have all the time in the world for explanations, 
love,” he reminded me gently. Of course. I could wait 
a little longer for the answer; it would be easier to 
listen when the fierce pain of the fiery thirst was no 
longer scattering my concentration. “Okay.” 

“Wait, wait, wait,” Alice trilled from the doorway. She 
danced across the room, dreamily graceful. As with 
Edward and Carlisle, I felt some shock as I really 
looked at her face for the first time. So lovely. “You 
promised I could be there the first time! What if you 
two run past something reflective?” 

“Alice — ,” Edward protested. 



445 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It will only take a second!” And with that, Alice 
darted from the room. Edward sighed. 

“What is she talking about?” 

But Alice was already back, carrying the huge, gilt- 
framed mirror from Rosalie’s room, which was nearly 
twice as tall as she was, and several times as wide. 
Jasper had been so still and silent that I’d taken no 
notice of him since he’d followed behind Carlisle. Now 
he moved again, to hover over Alice, his eyes locked 
on my expression. Because I was the danger here. 

I knew he would be tasting the mood around me, too, 
and so he must have felt my jolt of shock as I studied 
his face, looking at it closely for the first time. 

Through my sightless human eyes, the scars left from 
his former life with the newborn armies in the South 
had been mostly invisible. Only with a bright light to 
throw their slightly raised shapes into definition could 
I even make out their existence. Now that I could see, 
the scars were Jasper’s most dominant feature. It was 
hard to take my eyes off his ravaged neck and jaw — 
hard to believe that even a vampire could have 
survived so many sets of teeth ripping into his throat. 

Instinctively, I tensed to defend myself. Any vampire 
who saw Jasper would have had the same reaction. 
The scars were like a lighted billboard. Dangerous, 
they screamed. How many vampires had tried to kill 
Jasper? Hundreds? Thousands? The same number 
that had died in the attempt. 

Jasper both saw and felt my assessment, my caution, 
and he smiled wryly. 



446 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Edward gave me grief for not getting you to a mirror 
before the wedding,” Alice said, pulling my attention 
away from her frightening lover. “I’m not going to be 
chewed out again.” 

“Chewed out?” Edward asked skeptically, one 
eyebrow curving upward. 

“Maybe I’m overstating things,” she murmured 
absently as she turned the mirror to face me. 

“And maybe this has solely to do with your own 
voyeuristic gratification,” he countered. 

Alice winked at him. 

I was only aware of this exchange with the lesser part 
of my concentration. The greater part was riveted on 
the person in the mirror. 

My first reaction was an unthinking pleasure. The 
alien creature in the glass was indisputably beautiful, 
every bit as beautiful as Alice or Esme. She was fluid 
even in stillness, and her flawless face was pale as the 
moon against the frame of her dark, heavy hair. Her 
limbs were smooth and strong, skin glistening subtly, 
luminous as a pearl. 

My second reaction was horror. 

Who was she? At first glance, I couldn’t find my face 
anywhere in the smooth, perfect planes of her 
features. 

And her eyes! Though I’d known to expect them, her 
eyes still sent a thrill of terror through me. 



447 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




All the while I studied and reacted, her face was 
perfectly composed, a carving of a goddess, showing 
nothing of the turmoil roiling inside me. And then her 
full lips moved. 

“The eyes?” I whispered, unwilling to say my eyes. 
“How long? 

“They’ll darken up in a few months,” Edward said in a 
soft, comforting voice. “Animal blood dilutes the color 
more quickly than a diet of human blood. They’ll turn 
amber first, then gold.” 

My eyes would blaze like vicious red flames for 
months? 

“Months?” My voice was higher now, stressed. In the 
mirror, the perfect eyebrows lifted incredulously 
above her glowing crimson eyes — brighter than any I’d 
ever seen before. Jasper took a step forward, alarmed 
by the intensity of my sudden anxiety. He knew 
young vampires only too well; did this emotion 
presage some misstep on my part? 

No one answered my question. I looked away, to 
Edward and Alice. Both their eyes were slightly 
unfocused — reacting to Jasper’s unease. Listening to 
its cause, looking ahead to the immediate future. 

I took another deep, unnecessary breath. 

“No, I’m fine,” I promised them. My eyes flickered to 
the stranger in the mirror and back. “It’s just... a lot 
to take in.” 

Jasper’s brow furrowed, highlighting the two scars 
over his left eye. 

448 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t know,” Edward murmured. 

The woman in the mirror frowned. “What question did 
I miss?” 

Edward grinned. “Jasper wonders how you’re doing 
it.” 

“Doing what?” 

“Controlling your emotions, Bella,” Jasper answered. 
“I’ve never seen a newborn do that — stop an emotion 
in its tracks that way. You were upset, but when you 
saw our concern, you reined it in, regained power 
over yourself. I was prepared to help, but you didn’t 
need it.” 

“Is that wrong?” I asked. My body automatically froze 
as I waited for his verdict. 

“No,” he said, but his voice was unsure. 

Edward stroked his hand down my arm, as if 
encouraging me to thaw. “It’s very impressive, Bella, 
but we don’t understand it. We don’t know how long 
it can hold.” 

I considered that for a portion of a second. At any 
moment, would I snap? Turn into a monster? 

I couldn’t feel it coming on.... Maybe there was no 
way to anticipate such a thing. 

“But what do you think?” Alice asked, a little 
impatient now, pointing to the mirror. 

“I’m not sure,” I hedged, not wanting to admit how 
frightened I really was. I stared at the beautiful 



449 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




woman with the terrifying eyes, looking for pieces of 
me. There was something there in the shape of her 
lips — if you looked past the dizzying beauty, it was 
true that her upper lip was slightly out of balance, a 
bit too full to match the lower. Finding this familiar 
little flaw made me feel a tiny bit better. Maybe the 
rest of me was in there, too. 

I raised my hand experimentally, and the woman in 
the mirror copied the movement, touching her face, 
too. Her crimson eyes watched me warily. 

Edward sighed. 

I turned away from her to look at him, raising one 
eyebrow. 

“Disappointed?” I asked, my ringing voice impassive. 
He laughed. “Yes,” he admitted. 

I felt the shock break through the composed mask on 
my face, followed instantly by the hurt. 

Alice snarled. Jasper leaned forward again, waiting 
for me to snap. But Edward ignored them and 
wrapped his arms tightly around my newly frozen 
form, pressing his lips against my cheek. “I was 
rather hoping that I’d be able to hear your mind, now 
that it is more similar to my own,” he murmured. 

“And here I am, as frustrated as ever, wondering what 
could possibly be going on inside your head.” 

I felt better at once. 



450 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh well,” I said lightly, relieved that my thoughts 
were still my own. “I guess my brain will never work 
right. At least I’m pretty.” 

It was becoming easier to joke with him as I adjusted, 
to think in straight lines. To be myself. 

Edward growled in my ear. “Bella, you have never 
been merely pretty.” 

Then his face pulled away from mine, and he sighed. 
“All right, all right,” he said to someone. 

“What?” I asked. 

“You’re making Jasper more edgy by the second. He 
may relax a little when you’ve hunted.” 

I looked at Jasper’s worried expression and nodded. I 
didn’t want to snap here, if that was coming. Better to 
be surrounded by trees than family. 

“Okay. Let’s hunt,” I agreed, a thrill of nerves and 
anticipation making my stomach quiver. I unwrapped 
Edward’s arms from around me, keeping one of his 
hands, and turned my back on the strange and 
beautiful woman in the mirror. 



451 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





FIRST HUNT 



“The window?” I asked, staring two stories down. 

I’d never really been afraid of heights per se, but 
being able to see all the details with such clarity made 
the prospect less appealing. The angles of the rocks 
below were sharper than I would have imagined them. 

Edward smiled. “It’s the most convenient exit. If 
you’re frightened, I can carry you.” 

“We have all eternity, and you’re worried about the 
time it would take to walk to the back door?” 

He frowned slightly. “Renesmee and Jacob are 
downstairs. ...” 

“Oh.” 

Right. I was the monster now. I had to keep away 
from scents that might trigger my wild side. From the 
people that I loved in particular. Even the ones I 
didn’t really know yet. 

“Is Renesmee... okay... with Jacob there?” I 
whispered. I realized belatedly that it must have been 
Jacob’s heart I’d heard below. I listened hard again, 
but I could only hear the one steady pulse. “He 
doesn’t like her much.” 

Edward’s lips tightened in an odd way. “Trust me, she 
is perfectly safe. I know exactly what Jacob is 
thinking.” 



452 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“Of course,” I murmured, and looked at the ground 
again. 



“Stalling?” he challenged. 

“A little. I don’t know how. . . .” 

And I was very conscious of my family behind me, 
watching silently. Mostly silently. Emmett had already 
chuckled under his breath once. One mistake, and 
he’d be rolling on the floor. Then the jokes about the 
world’s only clumsy vampire would start.... 

Also, this dress — that Alice must have put me in 
sometime when I was too lost in the burning to 
notice — was not what I would have picked out for 
either jumping or hunting. Tightly fitted ice-blue silk? 
What did she think I would need it for? Was there a 
cocktail party later? 

“Watch me,” Edward said. And then, very casually, he 
stepped out of the tall, open window and fell. 

I watched carefully, analyzing the angle at which he 
bent his knees to absorb the impact. The sound of his 
landing was very low — a muted thud that could have 
been a door softly closed, or a book gently laid on a 
table. 

It didn’t look hard. 

Clenching my teeth as I concentrated, I tried to copy 
his casual step into empty air. Ha! The ground 
seemed to move toward me so slowly that it was 
nothing at all to place my feet — what shoes had Alice 
put me in? Stilettos? She’d lost her mind — to place 
my silly shoes exactly right so that landing was no 
453 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




different than stepping one foot forward on a flat 
surface. 

I absorbed the impact in the balls of my feet, not 
wanting to snap off the thin heels. My landing seemed 
just as quiet as his. I grinned at him. 

“Right. Easy.” 

He smiled back. “Bella?” 

“Yes?” 

“That was quite graceful — even for a vampire.” 

I considered that for a moment, and then I beamed. If 
he’d just been saying that, then Emmett would have 
laughed. No one found his remark humorous, so it 
must have been true. It was the first time anyone had 
ever applied the word graceful to me in my entire 
life... or, well, existence anyway. 

“Thank you,” I told him. 

And then I hooked the silver satin shoes off my feet 
one by one and lobbed them together back through 
the open window. A little too hard, maybe, but I heard 
someone catch them before they could damage the 
paneling. 

Alice grumbled, “Her fashion sense hasn’t improved 
as much as her balance.” 

Edward took my hand — I couldn’t stop marveling at 
the smoothness, the comfortable temperature of his 
skin — and darted through the backyard to the edge of 
the river. I went along with him effortlessly. 



454 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Everything physical seemed very simple. 

“Are we swimming?” I asked him when we stopped 
beside the water. 

“And min your pretty dress? No. We’re jumping.” 

I pursed my lips, considering. The river was about 
fifty yards wide here. 

“You first,” I said. 

He touched my cheek, took two quick backward 
strides, and then ran back those two steps, launching 
himself from a flat stone firmly embedded in the 
riverbank. I studied the flash of movement as he 
arced over the water, finally turning a somersault just 
before he disappeared into the thick trees on the 
other side of the river. 

“Show-off,” I muttered, and heard his invisible laugh. 

I backed up five paces, just in case, and took a deep 
breath. 

Suddenly, I was anxious again. Not about falling or 
getting hurt — I was more worried about the forest 
getting hurt. 

It had come on slowly, but I could feel it now — the 
raw, massive strength thrilling in my limbs. I was 
suddenly sure that if I wanted to tunnel under the 
river, to claw or beat my way straight through the 
bedrock, it wouldn’t take me very long. The objects 
around me 



455 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




— the trees, the shrubs, the rocks... the house — had 
all begun to look very fragile. Hoping very much that 
Esme was not particularly fond of any specific trees 
across the river, I began my first stride. And then 
stopped when the tight satin split six inches up my 
thigh. Alice! 

Well, Alice always seemed to treat clothes as if they 
were disposable and meant for onetime usage, so she 
shouldn’t mind this. I bent to carefully grasp the hem 
at the undamaged right seam between my fingers 
and, exerting the tiniest amount of pressure possible, 

I ripped the dress open to the top of my thigh. Then I 
fixed the other side to match. 

Much better. 

I could hear the muffled laughter in the house, and 
even the sound of someone gritting her teeth. The 
laughter came from upstairs and down, and I very 
easily recognized the much different, rough, throaty 
chuckle from the first floor. 

So Jacob was watching, too? I couldn’t imagine what 
he was thinking now, or what he was still doing here. 
I’d envisioned our reunion — if he could ever forgive 
me — taking place far in the future, when I was more 
stable, and time had healed the wounds I’d inflicted 
in his heart. 

I didn’t turn to look at him now, wary of my mood 
swings. It wouldn’t be good to let any emotion take 
too strong a hold on my frame of mind. Jasper’s fears 
had me on edge, too. I had to hunt before I dealt with 
anything else. I tried to forget everything else so I 
could concentrate. 

456 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella?” Edward called from the woods, his voice 
moving closer. “Do you want to watch again?” 

But I remembered everything perfectly, of course, and 
I didn’t want to give Emmett a reason to find more 
humor in my education. This was physical — it should 
be instinctive. So I took a deep breath and ran for the 
river. 

Unhindered by my skirt, it took only one long bound 
to reach the water’s edge. Just an eighty-fourth of a 
second, and yet it was plenty of time — my eyes and 
my mind moved so quickly that one step was enough. 
It was simple to position my right foot just so against 
the flat stone and exert the adequate pressure to send 
my body wheeling up into the air. I was paying more 
attention to aim than force, and I erred on the 
amount of power necessary — but at least I didn’t err 
on the side that would have gotten me wet. The fifty 
yard width was slightly too easy a distance. ... It was 
a strange, giddy, electrifying thing, but a short thing. 
An entire second had yet to pass, and I was across. 

I was expecting the close-packed trees to be a 
problem, but they were surprisingly helpful. It was a 
simple matter to reach out with one sure hand as I 
fell back toward the earth again deep inside the forest 
and catch myself on a convenient branch; I swung 
lightly from the limb and landed on my toes, still 
fifteen feet from the ground on the wide bough of a 
Sitka spruce. 

It was fabulous. 

Over the sound of my peals of delighted laughter, I 
could hear Edward racing to find me. My jump had 

457 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




been twice as long as his. When he reached my tree, 
his eyes were wide. I leaped nimbly from the branch 
to his side, soundlessly landing again on the balls of 
my feet. 

“Was that good?” I wondered, my breathing 
accelerated with excitement. 

“Very good.” He smiled approvingly, but his casual 
tone didn’t match the surprised expression in his 
eyes. 

“Can we do it again?” 

“Focus, Bella — we’re on a hunting trip.” 

“Oh, right.” I nodded. “Hunting.” 

“Follow me... if you can.” He grinned, his expression 
suddenly taunting, and broke into a run. 

He was faster than me. I couldn’t imagine how he 
moved his legs with such blinding speed, but it was 
beyond me. However, I was stronger, and every stride 
of mine matched the length of three of his. And so I 
flew with him through the living green web, by his 
side, not following at all. As I ran, I couldn’t help 
laughing quietly at the thrill of it; the laughter neither 
slowed me nor upset my focus. 

I could finally understand why Edward never hit the 
trees when he ran — a question that had always been 
a mystery to me. It was a peculiar sensation, the 
balance between the speed and the clarity. For, while 
I rocketed over, under, and through the thick jade 
maze at a rate that should have reduced everything 
around me to a streaky green blur, I could plainly see 
458 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




each tiny leaf on all the small branches of every 
insignificant shrub that I passed. 

The wind of my speed blew my hair and my torn dress 
out behind me, and, though I knew it shouldn’t, it felt 
warm against my skin. Just as the rough forest floor 
shouldn’t feel like velvet beneath my bare soles, and 
the limbs that whipped against my skin shouldn’t feel 
like caressing feathers. 

The forest was much more alive than I’d ever known — 
small creatures whose existence I’d never guessed at 
teemed in the leaves around me. They all grew silent 
after we passed, their breath quickening in fear. The 
animals had a much wiser reaction to our scent than 
humans seemed to. Certainly, it’d had the opposite 
effect on me. I kept waiting to feel winded, but my 
breath came effortlessly. I waited for the burn to 
begin in my muscles, but my strength only seemed to 
increase as I grew accustomed to my stride. My 
leaping bounds stretched longer, and soon he was 
trying to keep up with me. I laughed again, exultant, 
when I heard him falling behind. My naked feet 
touched the ground so infrequently now it felt more 
like flying than running. 

“Bella,” he called dryly, his voice even, lazy. I could 
hear nothing else; he had stopped. I briefly considered 
mutiny. 

But, with a sigh, I whirled and skipped lightly to his 
side, some hundred yards back. I looked at him 
expectantly. He was smiling, with one eyebrow raised. 
He was so beautiful that I could only stare. 



459 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Did you want to stay in the country?” he asked, 
amused. “Or were you planning to continue on to 
Canada this afternoon?” 

“This is fine,” I agreed, concentrating less on what he 
was saying and more on the mesmerizing way his lips 
moved when he spoke. It was hard not to become 
sidetracked with everything fresh in my strong new 
eyes. “What are we hunting?” 

“Elk. I thought something easy for your first time ...” 
He trailed off when my eyes narrowed at the word 
easy. 

But I wasn’t going to argue; I was too thirsty. As soon 
as I’d started to think about the dry burn in my 
throat, it was all I could think about. Definitely 
getting worse. My mouth felt like four o’clock on a 
June afternoon in Death Valley. 

“Where?” I asked, scanning the trees impatiently. Now 
that I had given the thirst my attention, it seemed to 
taint every other thought in my head, leaking into the 
more pleasant thoughts of running and Edward’s lips 
and kissing and... scorching thirst. I couldn’t get 
away from it. 

“Hold still for a minute,” he said, putting his hands 
lightly on my shoulders. The urgency of my thirst 
receded momentarily at his touch. 

“Now close your eyes,” he murmured. When I obeyed, 
he raised his hands to my face, stroking my 
cheekbones. I felt my breathing speed and waited 
briefly again for the blush that wouldn’t come. 



460 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Listen,” Edward instructed. “What do you hear?” 

Everything, I could have said; his perfect voice, his 
breath, his lips brushing together as he spoke, the 
whisper of birds preening their feathers in the 
treetops, their fluttering heartbeats, the maple leaves 
scraping together, the faint clicking of ants following 
each other in a long line up the bark of the nearest 
tree. But I knew he meant something specific, so I let 
my ears range outward, seeking something different 
than the small hum of life that surrounded me. There 
was an open space near us — the wind had a different 
sound across the exposed grass — and a small creek, 
with a rocky bed. And there, near the noise of the 
water, was the splash of lapping tongues, the loud 
thudding of heavy hearts, pumping thick streams of 
blood. . . . 

It felt like the sides of my throat had sucked closed. 

“By the creek, to the northeast?” I asked, my eyes still 
shut. 

“Yes.” His tone was approving. “Now... wait for the 
breeze again and... what do you smell?” 

Mostly him — his strange honey-lilac-and-sun 
perfume. But also the rich, earthy smell of rot and 
moss, the resin in the evergreens, the warm, almost 
nutty aroma of the small rodents cowering beneath 
the tree roots. And then, reaching out again, the clean 
smell of the water, which was surprisingly 
unappealing despite my thirst. I focused toward the 
water and found the scent that must have gone with 
the lapping noise and the pounding heart. Another 
warm smell, rich and tangy, stronger than the others. 
461 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




And yet nearly as unappealing as the brook. I 
wrinkled my nose. 

He chuckled. “I know — it takes some getting used to.” 
“Three?” I guessed. 

“Five. There are two more in the trees behind them.” 
“What do I do now?” 

His voice sounded like he was smiling. “What do you 
feel like doing?” 

I thought about that, my eyes still shut as I listened 
and breathed in the scent. Another bout of baking 
thirst intruded on my awareness, and suddenly the 
warm, tangy odor wasn’t quite so objectionable. At 
least it would be something hot and wet in my 
desiccated mouth. My eyes snapped open. 

“Don’t think about it,” he suggested as he lifted his 
hands off my face and took a step back. “Just follow 
your instincts.” 

I let myself drift with the scent, barely aware of my 
movement as I ghosted down the incline to the narrow 
meadow where the stream flowed. My body shifted 
forward automatically into a low crouch as I hesitated 
at the fern-fringed edge of the trees. I could see a big 
buck, two dozen antler points crowning his head, at 
the stream’s edge, and the shadow-spotted shapes of 
the four others heading eastward into forest at a 
leisurely pace. 

I centered myself around the scent of the male, the 
hot spot in his shaggy neck where the warmth pulsed 



462 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




strongest. Only thirty yards — two or three bounds — 
between us. I tensed myself for the first leap. 

But as my muscles bunched in preparation, the wind 
shifted, blowing stronger now, and from the south. I 
didn’t stop to think, hurtling out of the trees in a path 
perpendicular to my original plan, scaring the elk into 
the forest, racing after a new fragrance so attractive 
that there wasn’t a choice. It was compulsory. 

The scent ruled completely. I was single-minded as I 
traced it, aware only of the thirst and the smell that 
promised to quench it. The thirst got worse, so 
painful now that it confused all my other thoughts 
and began to remind me of the burn of venom in my 
veins. 

There was only one thing that had any chance of 
penetrating my focus now, an instinct more powerful, 
more basic than the need to quench the fire — it was 
the instinct to protect myself from danger. Self- 
preservation. 

I was suddenly alert to the fact that I was being 
followed. The pull of the irresistible scent warred with 
the impulse to turn and defend my hunt. A bubble of 
sound built in my chest, my lips pulled back of their 
own accord to expose my teeth in warning. My feet 
slowed, the need to protect my back struggling 
against the desire to quench my thirst. 

And then I could hear my pursuer gaining, and 
defense won. As I spun, the rising sound ripped its 
way up my throat and out. 



463 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The feral snarl, coming from my own mouth, was so 
unexpected that it brought me up short. It unsettled 
me, and it cleared my head for a second — the thirst- 
driven haze receded, though the thirst burned on. 

The wind shifted, blowing the smell of wet earth and 
coming rain across my face, further freeing me from 
the other scent’s fiery grip — a scent so delicious it 
could only be human. 

Edward hesitated a few feet away, his arms raised as 
if to embrace me — or restrain me. His face was intent 
and cautious as I froze, horrified. 

I realized that I had been about to attack him. With a 
hard jerk, I straightened out of my defensive crouch. I 
held my breath as I refocused, fearing the power of 
the fragrance swirling up from the south. 

He could see reason return to my face, and he took a 
step toward me, lowering his arms. 

“I have to get away from here,” I spit through my 
teeth, using the breath I had. Shock crossed his face. 
“Can you leave?” 

I didn’t have time to ask him what he meant by that. I 
knew the ability to think clearly would last only as 
long as I could stop myself from thinking of — 

I burst into a run again, a flat-out sprint straight 
north, concentrating solely on the uncomfortable 
feeling of sensory deprivation that seemed to be my 
body’s only response to the lack of air. My one goal 
was to run far enough away that the scent behind me 



464 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




would be completely lost. Impossible to find, even if I 
changed my mind... 

Once again, I was aware of being followed, but I was 
sane this time. I fought the instinct to breathe — to use 
the flavors in the air to be sure it was Edward. I didn’t 
have to fight long; though I was running faster than I 
ever had before, shooting like a comet through the 
straightest path I could find in the trees; Edward 
caught up with me after a short minute. 

A new thought occurred to me, and I stopped dead, 
my feet planted. I was sure it must be safe here, but I 
held my breath just in case. 

Edward blew past me, surprised by my sudden freeze. 
He wheeled around and was at my side in a second. 
He put his hands on my shoulders and stared into my 
eyes, shock still the dominant emotion on his face. 

“How did you do that?” he demanded. 

“You let me beat you before, didn’t you?” I demanded 
back, ignoring his question. And I’d thought I’d been 
doing so well! 

When I opened my mouth, I could taste the air — it 
was unpolluted now, with no trace of the compelling 
perfume to torment my thirst. I took a cautious 
breath. He shrugged and shook his head, refusing to 
be deflected. “Bella, how did you do it?” 

“Run away? I held my breath.” 

“But how did you stop hunting?” 



465 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“When you came up behind me... I’m so sorry about 
that.” 

“Why are you apologizing to me? I’m the one who was 
horribly careless. I assumed no one would be so far 
from the trails, but I should have checked first. Such 
a stupid mistake! You have nothing to apologize for.” 

“But I growled at you!” I was still horrified that I was 
physically capable of such blasphemy. 

“Of course you did. That’s only natural. But I can’t 
understand how you ran away.” 

“What else could I do?” I asked. His attitude confused 
me — what did he want to have happened? “It might 
have been someone I know!” 

He startled me, suddenly bursting into a spasm of 
loud laughter, throwing his head back and letting the 
sound echo off the trees. 

“Why are you laughing at me?” 

He stopped at once, and I could see he was wary 
again. 

Keep it under control, I thought to myself. I had to 
watch my temper. Just like I was a young werewolf 
rather than a vampire. 

“I’m not laughing at you, Bella. I’m laughing because I 
am in shock. And I am in shock because I am 
completely amazed.” 

“Why?” 



466 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You shouldn’t be able to do any of this. You 
shouldn’t be so... so rational. You shouldn’t be able to 
stand here discussing this with me calmly and coolly. 
And, much more than any of that, you should not 
have been able to break off mid-hunt with the scent of 
human blood in the air. Even mature vampires have 
difficulty with that — we’re always very careful of 
where we hunt so as not to put ourselves in the path 
of temptation. Bella, you’re behaving like you’re 
decades rather than days old.” 

“Oh.” But I’d known it was going to be hard. That was 
why I’d been so on guard. I’d been expecting it to be 
difficult. 

He put his hands on my face again, and his eyes were 
full of wonder. “What wouldn’t I give to be able to see 
into your mind for just this one moment.” 

Such powerful emotions. I’d been prepared for the 
thirst part, but not this. I’d been so sure it wouldn’t 
be the same when he touched me. Well, truthfully, it 
wasn’t the same. It was stronger. 

I reached up to trace the planes of his face; my fingers 
lingered on his lips. 

“I thought I wouldn’t feel this way for a long time?” 

My uncertainty made the words a question. “But I 
still want you.” 

He blinked in shock. “How can you even concentrate 
on that? Aren’t you unbearably thirsty?” 

Of course I was now, now that he’d brought it up 
again! 



467 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I tried to swallow and then sighed, closing my eyes 
like I had before to help me concentrate. I let my 
senses range out around me, tensed this time in case 
of another onslaught of the delicious taboo scent. 

Edward dropped his hands, not even breathing while 
I listened farther and farther out into the web of green 
life, sifting through the scents and sounds for 
something not totally repellant to my thirst. There 
was a hint of something different, a faint trail to the 
east. . . . 

My eyes flashed open, but my focus was still on 
sharper senses as I turned and darted silently 
eastward. The ground sloped steeply upward almost 
at once, and I ran in a hunting crouch, close to the 
ground, taking to the trees when that was easier. I 
sensed rather than heard Edward with me, flowing 
quietly through the woods, letting me lead. The 
vegetation thinned as we climbed higher; the scent of 
pitch and resin grew more powerful, as did the trail I 
followed — it was a warm scent, sharper than the smell 
of the elk and more appealing. A few seconds more 
and I could hear the muted padding of immense feet, 
so much subtler than the crunch of hooves. The 
sound was up — in the branches rather than on the 
ground. Automatically I darted into the boughs as 
well, gaining the strategic higher position, halfway up 
a towering silver fir. The soft thud of paws continued 
stealthily beneath me now; the rich scent was very 
close. My eyes pinpointed the movement linked with 
the sound, and I saw the tawny hide of the great cat 
slinking along the wide branch of a spruce just down 
and to the left of my perch. He was big — easily four 



468 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




times my mass. His eyes were intent on the ground 
beneath; the cat hunted, too. I caught the smell of 
something smaller, bland next to the aroma of my 
prey, cowering in brush below the tree. The lion’s tail 
twitched spasmodically as he prepared to spring. 

With a light bound, I sailed through the air and 
landed on the lion’s branch. He felt the shiver of the 
wood and whirled, shrieking surprise and defiance. 

He clawed the space between us, his eyes bright with 
fury. Half-crazed with thirst, I ignored the exposed 
fangs and the hooked claws and launched myself at 
him, knocking us both to the forest floor. 

It wasn’t much of a fight. 

His raking claws could have been caressing fingers for 
all the impact they had on my skin. His teeth could 
find no purchase against my shoulder or my throat. 
His weight was nothing. My teeth unerringly sought 
his throat, and his instinctive resistance was pitifully 
feeble against my strength. My jaws locked easily over 
the precise point where the heat flow concentrated. 

It was effortless as biting into butter. My teeth were 
steel razors; they cut through the fur and fat and 
sinews like they weren’t there. 

The flavor was wrong, but the blood was hot and wet 
and it soothed the ragged, itching thirst as I drank in 
an eager rush. The cat’s struggles grew more and 
more feeble, and his screams choked off with a 
gurgle. The warmth of the blood radiated throughout 
my whole body, heating even my fingertips and toes. 



469 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The lion was finished before I was. The thirst flared 
again when he ran dry, and I shoved his carcass off 
my body in disgust. How could I still be thirsty after 
all that? 

I wrenched myself erect in one quick move. Standing, 
I realized I was a bit of a mess. I wiped my face off on 
the back of my arm and tried to fix the dress. The 
claws that had been so ineffectual against my skin 
had had more success with the thin satin. 

“Hmm,” Edward said. I looked up to see him leaning 
casually against a tree trunk, watching me with a 
thoughtful look on his face. 

“I guess I could have done that better.” I was covered 
in dirt, my hair knotted, my dress bloodstained and 
hanging in tatters. Edward didn’t come home from 
hunting trips looking like this. 

“You did perfectly fine,” he assured me. “It’s just 
that... it was much more difficult for me to watch 
than it should have been.” 

I raised my eyebrows, confused. 

“It goes against the grain,” he explained, “letting you 
wrestle with lions. I was having an anxiety attack the 
whole time.” 

“Silly.” 

“I know. Old habits die hard. I like the improvements 
to your dress, though.” 

If I could have blushed, I would have. I changed the 
subject. “Why am I still thirsty?” 



470 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Because you’re young.” 

I sighed. “And I don’t suppose there are any other 
mountain lions nearby.” 

“Plenty of deer, though.” 

I made a face. “They don’t smell as good.” 

“Herbivores. The meat-eaters smell more like 
humans,” he explained. 

“Not that much like humans,” I disagreed, trying not 
to remember. 

“We could go back,” he said solemnly, but there was a 
teasing light in his eye. 

“Whoever it was out there, if they were men, they 
probably wouldn’t even mind death if you were the 
one delivering it.” His gaze ran over my ravaged dress 
again. “In fact, they would think they were already 
dead and gone to heaven the moment they saw you.” 

I rolled my eyes and snorted. “Let’s go hunt some 
stinking herbivores.” 

We found a large herd of mule deer as we ran back 
toward home. He hunted with me this time, now that 
I’d gotten the hang of it. I brought down a large buck, 
making nearly as much of a mess as I had with the 
lion. He’d finished with two before I was done with the 
first, not a hair ruffled, not a spot on his white shirt. 
We chased the scattered and terrified herd, but 
instead of feeding again, this time I watched carefully 
to see how he was able to hunt so neatly. 



471 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




All the times that I had wished that Edward would 
not have to leave me behind when he hunted, I had 
secretly been just a little relieved. Because I was sure 
that seeing this would be frightening. Horrifying. That 
seeing him hunt would finally make him look like a 
vampire to me. 

Of course, it was much different from this 
perspective, as a vampire myself. But I doubted that 
even my human eyes would have missed the beauty 
here. It was a surprisingly sensual experience to 
observe Edward hunting. His smooth spring was like 
the sinuous strike of a snake; his hands were so sure, 
so strong, so completely inescapable; his full lips were 
perfect as they parted gracefully over his gleaming 
teeth. He was glorious. I felt a sudden jolt of both 
pride and desire. He was mine. Nothing could ever 
separate him from me now. I was too strong to be torn 
from his side. He was very quick. He turned to me 
and gazed curiously at my gloating expression. 

“No longer thirsty?” he asked. 

I shrugged. “You distracted me. You’re much better at 
it than I am.” 

“Centuries of practice.” He smiled. His eyes were a 
disconcertingly lovely shade of honey gold now. 

“Just one,” I corrected him. 

He laughed. “Are you done for today? Or did you want 
to continue?” 

“Done, I think.” I felt very full, sort of sloshy, even. I 
wasn’t sure how much more liquid would fit into my 



472 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




body. But the burn in my throat was only muted. 

Then again, I’d known that thirst was just an 
inescapable part of this life. And worth it. 

I felt in control. Perhaps my sense of security was 
false, but I did feel pretty good about not killing 
anyone today. If I could resist totally human 
strangers, wouldn’t I be able to handle the werewolf 
and a half-vampire child that I loved? 

“I want to see Renesmee,” I said. Now that my thirst 
was tamed (if nothing close to erased), my earlier 
worries were hard to forget. I wanted to reconcile the 
stranger who was my daughter with the creature I’d 
loved three days ago. It was so odd, so wrong not to 
have her inside me still. Abruptly, I felt empty and 
uneasy. He held out his hand to me. I took it, and his 
skin felt warmer than before. His cheek was faintly 
flushed, the shadows under his eyes all but vanished. 

I was unable to resist stroking his face again. And 
again. 

I sort of forgot that I was waiting for a response to my 
request as I stared into his shimmering gold eyes. 

It was almost as hard as it had been to turn away 
from the scent of human blood, but I somehow kept 
the need to be careful firmly in my head as I stretched 
up on my toes and wrapped my arms around him. 
Gently. 

He was not so hesitant in his movements; his arms 
locked around my waist and pulled me tight against 
his body. His lips crushed down on mine, but they felt 
soft. My lips no longer shaped themselves around his; 
they held their own. 

473 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Like before, it was as if the touch of his skin, his lips, 
his hands, was sinking right through my smooth, 
hard skin and into my new bones. To the very core of 
my body. I hadn’t imagined that I could love him more 
than I had. 

My old mind hadn’t been capable of holding this 
much love. My old heart had not been strong enough 
to bear it. 

Maybe this was the part of me that I’d brought 
forward to be intensified in my new life. Like Carlisle’s 
compassion and Esme’s devotion. I would probably 
never be able to do anything interesting or special like 
Edward, Alice, and Jasper could do. Maybe I would 
just love Edward more than anyone in the history of 
the world had ever loved anyone else. 

I could live with that. 

I remembered parts of this — twisting my fingers in his 
hair, tracing the planes of his chest — but other parts 
were so new. He was new. It was an entirely different 
experience with Edward kissing me so fearlessly, so 
forcefully. I responded to his intensity, and then 
suddenly we were falling. 

“Oops,” I said, and he laughed underneath me. “I 
didn’t mean to tackle you like that. Are you okay?” 

He stroked my face. “Slightly better than okay.” And 
then a perplexed expression crossed his face. 
“Renesmee?” he asked uncertainly, trying to ascertain 
what I wanted most in this moment. A very difficult 
question to answer, because I wanted so many things 
at the same time. 



474 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I could tell that he wasn’t exactly averse to 
procrastinating our return trip, and it was hard to 
think about much besides his skin on mine — there 
really wasn’t that much left of the dress. But my 
memory of Renesmee, before and after her birth, was 
becoming more and more dreamlike to me. More 
unlikely. All my memories of her were human 
memories; an aura of artificiality clung to them. 
Nothing seemed real that I hadn’t seen with these 
eyes, touched with these hands. 

Every minute, the reality of that little stranger slipped 
further away. 

“Renesmee,” I agreed, rueful, and I whipped back up 
onto my feet, pulling him with me. 



475 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





Thinking of Renesmee brought her to that center- 
stage place in my strange, new, and roomy but 
distractible mind. So many questions. 

“Tell me about her,” I insisted as he took my hand. 
Being linked barely slowed us. 

“She’s like nothing else in the world,” he told me, and 
the sound of an almost religious devotion was there 
again in his voice. 

I felt a sharp pang of jealousy over this stranger. He 
knew her and I did not. It wasn’t fair. 

“How much is she like you? How much like me? Or 
like I was, anyway.” 

“It seems a fairly even divide.” 

“She was warm-blooded,” I remembered. 

“Yes. She has a heartbeat, though it runs a little bit 
faster than a human’s. Her temperature is a little bit 
hotter than usual, too. She sleeps.” 

“Really?” 

“Quite well for a newborn. The only parents in the 
world who don’t need sleep, and our child already 
sleeps through the night.” He chuckled. 

I liked the way he said our child. The words made her 
more real. 



476 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“She has exactly your color eyes — so that didn’t get 
lost, after all.” He smiled at me. 

“They’re so beautiful.” 

“And the vampire parts?” I asked. 

“Her skin seems about as impenetrable as ours. Not 
that anyone would dream of testing that.” 

I blinked at him, a little shocked. 

“Of course no one would,” he assured me again. “Her 
diet... well, she prefers to drink blood. Carlisle 
continues to try to persuade her to drink some baby 
formula, too, but she doesn’t have much patience 
with it. Can’t say that I blame her — nasty-smelling 
stuff, even for human food.” 

I gaped openly at him now. He made it sound like 
they were having conversations. 

“Persuade her?” 

“She’s intelligent, shockingly so, and progressing at 
an immense pace. Though she doesn’t speak — yet — 
she communicates quite effectively.” 

“Doesn’t. Speak. Yet. ” 

He slowed our pace further, letting me absorb this. 

“What do you mean, she communicates effectively?” I 
demanded. 

“I think it will be easier for you to... see for yourself. 
It’s rather difficult to describe.” 



477 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I considered that. I knew there was a lot that I needed 
to see for myself before it would be real. I wasn’t sure 
how much more I was ready for, so I changed the 
subject. 

“Why is Jacob still here?” I asked. “How can he stand 
it? Why should he?” My ringing voice trembled a little. 
“Why should he have to suffer more?” 

“Jacob isn’t suffering,” he said in a strange new tone. 
“Though I might be willing to change his condition,” 
Edward added through his teeth. 

“Edward!” I hissed, yanking him to a stop (and feeling 
a little thrill of smugness that I was able to do it). 
“How can you say that? Jacob has given up 
everything to protect us! 

What I’ve put him through — !” I cringed at the dim 
memory of shame and guilt. It seemed odd now that I 
had needed him so much then. That sense of absence 
without him near had vanished; it must have been a 
human weakness. 

“You’ll see exactly how I can say that,” Edward 
muttered. “I promised him that I would let him 
explain, but I doubt you’ll see it much differently than 
I do. Of course, I’m often wrong about your thoughts, 
aren’t I?” He pursed his lips and eyed me. 

“Explain what?” 

Edward shook his head. “I promised. Though I don’t 
know if I really owe him anything at all anymore. ...” 
His teeth ground together. 



478 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Edward, I don’t understand.” Frustration and 
indignation took over my head. He stroked my cheek 
and then smiled gently when my face smoothed out in 
response, desire momentarily overruling annoyance. 
“It’s harder than you make it look, I know. I 
remember.” 

“I don’t like feeling confused.” 

“I know. And so let’s get you home, so that you can 
see it all for yourself.” His eyes ran over the remains 
of my dress as he spoke of going home, and he 
frowned. “Hmm.” 

After a half second of thought, he unbuttoned his 
white shirt and held it out for me to put my arms 
through. 

“That bad?” 

He grinned. 

I slipped my arms into his sleeves and then buttoned 
it swiftly over my ragged bodice. Of course, that left 
him without a shirt, and it was impossible not to find 
that distracting. 

“I’ll race you,” I said, and then cautioned, “no 
throwing the game this time!” 

He dropped my hand and grinned. “On your mark . . 



Finding my way to my new home was simpler than 
walking down Charlie’s street to my old one. Our 
scent left a clear and easy trail to follow, even running 
as fast as I could. Edward had me beat till we hit the 



479 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




river. I took a chance and made my leap early, trying 
to use my extra strength to win. 

“Ha!” I exulted when I heard my feet touch the grass 
first. 

Listening for his landing, I heard something I did not 
expect. Something loud and much too close. A 
thudding heart. 

Edward was beside me in the same second, his hands 
clamped down hard on the tops of my arms. 

“Don’t breathe,” he cautioned me urgently. 

I tried not to panic as I froze mid-breath. My eyes 
were the only things that moved, wheeling 
instinctively to find the source of the sound. 

Jacob stood at the line where the forest touched the 
Cullens’ lawn, his arms folded across his body, his 
jaw clenched tight. Invisible in the woods behind him, 
I heard now two larger hearts, and the faint crush of 
bracken under huge, pacing paws. 

“Carefully, Jacob,” Edward said. A snarl from the 
forest echoed the concern in his voice. 

“Maybe this isn’t the best way — ” 

“You think it would be better to let her near the baby 
first?” Jacob interrupted. “It’s safer to see how Bella 
does with me. I heal fast.” 

This was a test? To see if I could not kill Jacob before 
I tried to not kill Renesmee? I felt sick in the strangest 



480 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




way — it had nothing to do with my stomach, only my 
mind. Was this Edward’s idea? 

I glanced at his face anxiously; Edward seemed to 
deliberate for a moment, and then his expression 
twisted from concern into something else. He 
shrugged, and there was an undercurrent of hostility 
in his voice when he said, “It’s your neck, I guess.” 

The growl from the forest was furious this time; Leah, 
I had no doubt. What was with Edward? After all that 
we’d been through, shouldn’t he have been able to 
feel some kindness for my best friend? I’d thought — 
maybe foolishly — that Edward was sort of Jacob’s 
friend now, too. I must have misread them. 

But what was Jacob doing? Why would he offer 
himself as a test to protect Renesmee? 

It didn’t make any sense to me. Even if our friendship 
had survived... 

And as my eyes met Jacob’s now, I thought that 
maybe it had. He still looked like my best friend. But 
he wasn’t the one who had changed. What did I look 
like to him? 

Then he smiled his familiar smile, the smile of a 
kindred spirit, and I was sure our friendship was 
intact. It was just like before, when we were hanging 
out in his homemade garage, just two friends killing 
time. Easy and normal. Again, I noticed that the 
strange need I’d felt for him before I’d changed was 
completely gone. He was just my friend, the way it 
was supposed to be. 



481 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It still made no sense what he was doing now, 
though. Was he really so selfless that he would try to 
protect me — with his own life — from doing something 
in an uncontrolled split second that I would regret in 
agony forever? That went way beyond simply 
tolerating what I had become, or miraculously 
managing to stay my friend. Jacob was one of the 
best people I knew, but this seemed like too much to 
accept from anyone. His grin widened, and he 
shuddered slightly. “I gotta say it, Bells. You’re a 
freak show.” 

I grinned back, falling easily into the old pattern. This 
was a side of him I understood. Edward growled. 
“Watch yourself, mongrel.” 

The wind blew from behind me and I quickly filled my 
lungs with the safe air so I could speak. “No, he’s 
right. The eyes are really something, aren’t they?” 

“Super-creepy. But it’s not as bad as I thought it 
would be.” 

“Gee — thanks for the amazing compliment!” 

He rolled his eyes. “You know what I mean. You still 
look like you — sort of. Maybe it’s not the look so much 
as... you are Bella. I didn’t think it would feel like you 
were still here.” He smiled at me again without a trace 
of bitterness or resentment anywhere in his face. 

Then he chuckled and said, “Anyway, I guess I’ll get 
used to the eyes soon enough.” 

“You will?” I asked, confused. It was wonderful that 
we were still friends, but it wasn’t like we’d be 
spending much time together. 



482 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The strangest look crossed his face, erasing the smile. 
It was almost... guilty? Then his eyes shifted to 
Edward. 

“Thanks,” he said. “I didn’t know if you’d be able to 
keep it from her, promise or not. Usually, you just 
give her everything she wants.” 

“Maybe I’m hoping shell get irritated and rip your 
head off,” Edward suggested. Jacob snorted. 

“What’s going on? Are you two keeping secrets from 
me?” I demanded, incredulous. 

“I’ll explain later,” Jacob said self-consciously — like he 
didn’t really plan on it. Then he changed the subject. 
“First, let’s get this show on the road.” His grin was a 
challenge now as he started slowly forward. 

There was a whine of protest behind him, and then 
Leah’s gray body slid out of the trees behind him. The 
taller, sandy-colored Seth was right behind her. 

“Cool it, guys,” Jacob said. “Stay out of this.” 

I was glad they didn’t listen to him but only followed 
after him a little more slowly. The wind was still now; 
it wouldn’t blow his scent away from me. He got close 
enough that I could feel the heat of his body in the air 
between us. My throat burned in response. 

“C’mon, Bells. Do your worst.” 

Leah hissed. 

I didn’t want to breathe. It wasn’t right to take such 
dangerous advantage of Jacob, no matter if he was 



483 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the one offering. But I couldn’t get away from the 
logic. How else could I be sure that I wouldn’t hurt 
Renesmee? 

“I’m getting older here, Bella,” Jacob taunted. “Okay, 
not technically, but you get the idea. Go on, take a 
whiff.” 

“Hold on to me,” I said to Edward, cringing back into 
his chest. His hands tightened on my arms. 

I locked my muscles in place, hoping I could keep 
them frozen. I resolved that I would do at least as well 
as I had on the hunt. Worst-case scenario, I would 
stop breathing and run for it. Nervously, I took a tiny 
breath in through my nose, braced for anything. It 
hurt a little, but my throat was already burning dully 
anyway. Jacob didn’t smell that much more human 
than the mountain lion. There was an animal edge to 
his blood that instantly repelled. Though the loud, 
wet sound of his heart was appealing, the scent that 
went with it made my nose wrinkle. It was actually 
easier with the smell to temper my reaction to the 
sound and heat of his pulsing blood. 

I took another breath and relaxed. “Huh. I can see 
what everyone’s been going on about. You stink, 
Jacob.” 

Edward burst into laughter; his hands slipped from 
my shoulders to wrap around my waist. Seth barked 
a low chortle in harmony with Edward; he came a 
little closer while Leah retreated several paces. And 
then I was aware of another audience when I heard 
Emmett’s low, distinct guffaw, muffled a little by the 
glass wall between us. 

484 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Look who’s talking,” Jacob said, theatrically plugging 
his nose. His face didn’t pucker at all while Edward 
embraced me, not even when Edward composed 
himself and whispered “I love you” in my ear. Jacob 
just kept grinning. This made me feel hopeful that 
things were going to be right between us, the way 
they hadn’t been for so long now. Maybe now I could 
truly be his friend, since I disgusted him enough 
physically that he couldn’t love me the same way as 
before. Maybe that was all that was needed. 

“Okay, so I passed, right?” I said. “Now are you going 
to tell me what this big secret is?” 

Jacob’s expression became very nervous. “It’s nothing 
you need to worry about this second. ...” 

I heard Emmett chuckle again — a sound of 
anticipation. 

I would have pressed my point, but as I listened to 
Emmett, I heard other sounds, too. Seven people 
breathing. One set of lungs moving more rapidly than 
the others. Only one heart fluttering like a bird’s 
wings, light and quick. 

I was totally diverted. My daughter was just on the 
other side of that thin wall of glass. I couldn’t see 
her — the light bounced off the reflective windows like 
a mirror. I could only see myself, looking very 
strange — so white and still — compared to Jacob. Or, 
compared to Edward, looking exactly right. 

“Renesmee,” I whispered. Stress made me a statue 
again. Renesmee wasn’t going to smell like an animal. 
Would I put her in danger? 



485 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Come and see,” Edward murmured. “I know you can 
handle this.” 

“You’ll help me?” I whispered through motionless lips. 
“Of course I will.” 

“And Emmett and Jasper — just in case?” 

“Well take care of you, Bella. Don’t worry, we’ll be 
ready. None of us would risk Renesmee. I think you’ll 
be surprised at how entirely she’s already wrapped us 
all around her little fingers. She’ll be perfectly safe, no 
matter what.” 

My yearning to see her, to understand the worship in 
his voice, broke my frozen pose. I took a step forward. 

And then Jacob was in my way, his face a mask of 
worry. 

“Are you sure, bloodsucker?” he demanded of 
Edward, his voice almost pleading. I’d never heard 
him speak to Edward that way. “I don’t like this. 
Maybe she should wait — ” 

“You had your test, Jacob.” 

It was Jacob’s test? 

“But — ,” Jacob began. 

“But nothing,” Edward said, suddenly exasperated. 
“Bella needs to see our daughter. Get out of her way.” 

Jacob shot me an odd, frantic look and then turned 
and nearly sprinted into the house ahead of us. 



Edward growled. 

486 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t make sense of their confrontation, and I 
couldn’t concentrate on it, either. I could only think 
about the blurred child in my memory and struggle 
against the haziness, trying to remember her face 
exactly. 

“Shall we?” Edward said, his voice gentle again. 

I nodded nervously. 

He took my hand tightly in his and led the way into 
the house. 

They waited for me in a smiling line that was both 
welcoming and defensive. Rosalie was several paces 
behind the rest of them, near the front door. She was 
alone until Jacob joined her and then stood in front of 
her, closer than was normal. There was no sense of 
comfort in that closeness; both of them seemed to 
cringe from the proximity. Someone very small was 
leaning forward out of Rosalie’s arms, peering around 
Jacob. Immediately, she had my absolute attention, 
my every thought, the way nothing else had owned 
them since the moment I’d opened my eyes. 

“I was out just two days?” I gasped, disbelieving. 

The stranger-child in Rosalie’s arms had to be weeks, 
if not months, old. She was maybe twice the size of 
the baby in my dim memory, and she seemed to be 
supporting her own torso easily as she stretched 
toward me. Her shiny bronze-colored hair fell in 
ringlets past her shoulders. Her chocolate brown eyes 
examined me with an interest that was not at all 
childlike; it was adult, aware and intelligent. She 
raised one hand, reaching in my direction for a 



487 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




moment, and then reached back to touch Rosalie’s 
throat. If her face had not been astonishing in its 
beauty and perfection, I wouldn’t have believed it was 
the same child. My child. 

But Edward was there in her features, and I was 
there in the color of her eyes and cheeks. Even 
Charlie had a place in her thick curls, though their 
color matched Edward’s. She must be ours. 
Impossible, but still true. 

Seeing this unanticipated little person did not make 
her more real, though. It only made her more 
fantastic. 

Rosalie patted the hand against her neck and 
murmured, “Yes, that’s her.” 

Renesmee’s eyes stayed locked on mine. Then, as she 
had just seconds after her violent birth, she smiled at 
me. A brilliant flash of tiny, perfect white teeth. 
Reeling inside, I took a hesitant step toward her. 

Everyone moved very fast. 

Emmett and Jasper were right in front of me, 
shoulder to shoulder, hands ready. Edward gripped 
me from behind, fingers tight again on the tops of my 
arms. Even Carlisle and Esme moved to get Emmett’s 
and Jasper’s flanks, while Rosalie backed to the door, 
her arms clutching at Renesmee. Jacob moved, too, 
keeping his protective stance in front of them. 

Alice was the only one who held her place. 



488 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh, give her some credit,” she chided them. “She 
wasn’t going to do anything. You’d want a closer look, 
too.” 

Alice was right. I was in control of myself. I’d been 
braced for anything — for a scent as impossibly 
insistent as the human smell in the woods. The 
temptation here was really not comparable. 
Renesmee’s fragrance was perfectly balanced right on 
the line between the scent of the most beautiful 
perfume and the scent of the most delicious food. 
There was enough of the sweet vampire smell to keep 
the human part from being overwhelming. 

I could handle it. I was sure. 

“I’m okay,” I promised, patting Edward’s hand on my 
arm. Then I hesitated and added, 

“Keep close, though, just in case.” 

Jasper’s eyes were tight, focused. I knew he was 
taking in my emotional climate, and I worked on 
settling into a steady calm. I felt Edward free my arms 
as he read Jasper’s assessment. But, though Jasper 
was getting it firsthand, he didn’t seem as certain. 
When she heard my voice, the too-aware child 
struggled in Rosalie’s arms, reaching toward me. 
Somehow, her expression managed to look impatient. 

“Jazz, Em, let us through. Bella’s got this.” 

“Edward, the risk — ,” Jasper said. 

“Minimal. Listen, Jasper — on the hunt she caught the 
scent of some hikers who were in the wrong place at 
the wrong time. ...” 

489 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I heard Carlisle suck in a shocked breath. Esme’s face 
was suddenly full of concern mingled with 
compassion. Jasper’s eyes widened, but he nodded 
just a tiny bit, as if Edward’s words answered some 
question in his head. Jacob’s mouth screwed up into 
a disgusted grimace. Emmett shrugged. Rosalie 
seemed even less concerned than Emmett as she tried 
to hold on to the struggling child in her arms. 

Alice’s expression told me that she was not fooled. 

Her narrowed eyes, focused with burning intensity on 
my borrowed shirt, seemed more worried about what 
I’d done to my dress than anything else. 

“Edward!” Carlisle chastened. “How could you be so 
irresponsible?” 

“I know, Carlisle, I know. I was just plain stupid. I 
should have taken the time to make sure we were in a 
safe zone before I set her loose.” 

“Edward,” I mumbled, embarrassed by the way they 
stared at me. It was like they were trying to see a 
brighter red in my eyes. 

“He’s absolutely right to rebuke me, Bella,” Edward 
said with a grin. “I made a huge mistake. The fact 
that you are stronger than anyone I’ve ever known 
doesn’t change that.” 

Alice rolled her eyes. “Tasteful joke, Edward.” 

“I wasn’t making a joke. I was explaining to Jasper 
why I know Bella can handle this. It’s not my fault 
everyone jumped to conclusions.” 

“Wait,” Jasper gasped. “She didn’t hunt the humans?” 

490 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She started to,” Edward said, clearly enjoying 
himself. My teeth ground together. “She was entirely 
focused on the hunt.” 

“What happened?” Carlisle interjected. His eyes were 
suddenly bright, an amazed smile beginning to form 
on his face. It reminded me of before, when he’d 
wanted the details on my transformation experience. 
The thrill of new information. Edward leaned toward 
him, animated. “She heard me behind her and 
reacted defensively. As soon as my pursuit broke into 
her concentration, she snapped right out of it. I’ve 
never seen anything to equal her. She realized at once 
what was happening, and then... she held her breath 
and ran away.” 

“Whoa,” Emmett murmured. “Seriously?” 

“He’s not telling it right,” I muttered, more 
embarrassed than before. “He left out the part where I 
growled at him.” 

“Did ya get in a couple of good swipes?” Emmett 
asked eagerly. 

“No! Of course not.” 

“No, not really? You really didn’t attack him?” 
“Emmett!” I protested. 

“Aw, what a waste,” Emmett groaned. “And here 
you’re probably the one person who could take him — 
since he can’t get in your head to cheat — and you had 
a perfect excuse, too.” He sighed. “I’ve been dying to 
see how he’d do without that advantage.” 



491 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I glared at him frostily. “I would never.” 

Jasper’s frown caught my attention; he seemed even 
more disturbed than before. Edward touched his fist 
lightly to Jasper’s shoulder in a mock punch. “You 
see what I mean?” 

“It’s not natural,” Jasper muttered. 

“She could have turned on you — she’s only hours 
old!” Esme scolded, putting her hand against her 
heart. “Oh, we should have gone with you.” 

I wasn’t paying so much attention, now that Edward 
was past the punch line of his joke. I was staring at 
the gorgeous child by the door, who was still staring 
at me. Her little dimpled hands reached out toward 
me like she knew exactly who I was. Automatically, 
my hand lifted to mimic hers. 

“Edward,” I said, leaning around Jasper to see her 
better. “Please?” 

Jasper’s teeth were set; he didn’t move. 

“Jazz, this isn’t anything you’ve seen before,” Alice 
said quietly. “Trust me.” 

Their eyes met for a short second, and then Jasper 
nodded. He moved out of my way, but put one hand 
on my shoulder and moved with me as I walked 
slowly forward. I thought about every step before I 
took it, analyzing my mood, the burn in my throat, 
the position of the others around me. How strong I 
felt versus how well they would be able to contain me. 
It was a slow procession. 



492 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




And then the child in Rosalie’s arms, struggling and 
reaching all this time while her expression got more 
and more irritated, let out a high, ringing wail. 
Everyone reacted as if — like me — they’d never heard 
her voice before. 

They swarmed around her in a second, leaving me 
standing alone, frozen in place. The sound of 
Renesmee’s cry pierced right through me, spearing 
me to the floor. My eyes pricked in the strangest way, 
like they wanted to tear. 

It seemed like everyone had a hand on her, patting 
and soothing. Everyone but me. 

“What’s the matter? Is she hurt? What happened?” 

It was Jacob’s voice that was loudest, that raised 
anxiously above the others. I watched in shock as he 
reached for Renesmee, and then in utter horror as 
Rosalie surrendered her to him without a fight. 

“No, she’s fine,” Rosalie reassured him. 

Rosalie was reassuring Jacob? 

Renesmee went to Jacob willingly enough, pushing 
her tiny hand against his cheek and then squirming 
around to stretch toward me again. 

“See?” Rosalie told him. “She just wants Bella.” 

“She wants me?” I whispered. 

Renesmee’s eyes — my eyes — stared impatiently at me. 

Edward darted back to my side. He put his hands 
lightly on my arms and urged me forward. 

493 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She’s been waiting for you for almost three days,” he 
told me. We were only a few feet away from her now. 
Bursts of heat seemed to tremble out from her to 
touch me. 

Or maybe it was Jacob who was trembling. I saw his 
hands shaking as I got closer. And yet, despite his 
obvious anxiety, his face was more serene than I had 
seen it in a long time. 

“Jake — I’m fine,” I told him. It made me panicky to see 
Renesmee in his shaking hands, but I worked to keep 
myself in control. 

He frowned at me, eyes tight, like he was just as 
panicky at the thought of Renesmee in my arms. 

Renesmee whimpered eagerly and stretched, her little 
hands grasping into fists again and again. 

Something in me clicked into place at that moment. 
The sound of her cry, the familiarity of her eyes, the 
way she seemed even more impatient than I did for 
this reunion — all of it wove together into the most 
natural of patterns as she clutched the air between 
us. Suddenly, she was absolutely real, and of course I 
knew her. It was perfectly ordinary that I should take 
that last easy step and reach for her, putting my 
hands exactly where they would fit best as I pulled 
her gently toward me. 

Jacob let his long arms stretch so that I could cradle 
her, but he didn’t let go. He shuddered a little when 
our skin touched. His skin, always so warm to me 
before, felt like an open flame to me now. It was 



494 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




almost the same temperature as Renesmee’s. Perhaps 
one or two degrees difference. 

Renesmee seemed oblivious to the coolness of my 
skin, or at least very used to it. She looked up and 
smiled at me again, showing her square little teeth 
and two dimples. Then, very deliberately, she reached 
for my face. 

The moment she did this, all the hands on me 
tightened, anticipating my reaction. I barely noticed. 

I was gasping, stunned and frightened by the strange, 
alarming image that filled my mind. It felt like a very 
strong memory — I could still see through my eyes 
while I watched it in my head — but it was completely 
unfamiliar. I stared through it to Renesmee’s 
expectant expression, trying to understand what was 
happening, struggling desperately to hold on to my 
calm. 

Besides being shocking and unfamiliar, the image 
was also wrong somehow — I almost recognized my 
own face in it, my old face, but it was off, backward. I 
grasped quickly that I was seeing my face as others 
saw it, rather than flipped in a reflection. My memory 
face was twisted, ravaged, covered in sweat and 
blood. Despite this, my expression in the vision 
became an adoring smile; my brown eyes glowed over 
their deep circles. The image enlarged, my face came 
closer to the unseen vantage point, and then abruptly 
vanished. 

Renesmee’s hand dropped from my cheek. She smiled 
wider, dimpling again. It was totally silent in the room 
but for the heartbeats. No one but Jacob and 

495 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Renesmee was so much as breathing. The silence 
stretched on; it seemed like they were waiting for me 
to say something. 

“What... was... that?” I managed to choke out. 

“What did you see?” Rosalie asked curiously, leaning 
around Jacob, who seemed very much in the way and 
out of place at the moment. “What did she show you?” 

“She showed me that?” I whispered. 

“I told you it was hard to explain,” Edward murmured 
in my ear. “But effective as means of communications 

go.” 

“What was it?” Jacob asked. 

I blinked quickly several times. “Um. Me. I think. But 
I looked terrible.” 

“It was the only memory she had of you,” Edward 
explained. It was obvious he’d seen what she was 
showing me as she thought of it. He was still cringing, 
his voice rough from reliving the memory. “She’s 
letting you know that she’s made the connection, that 
she knows who you are.” 

“But how did she do that?” 

Renesmee seemed unconcerned with my boggling 
eyes. She was smiling slightly and pulling on a lock of 
my hair. 

“How do I hear thoughts? How does Alice see the 
future?” Edward asked rhetorically, and then 
shrugged. “She’s gifted.” 



496 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s an interesting twist,” Carlisle said to Edward. 
“Like she’s doing the exact opposite of what you can.” 

“Interesting,” Edward agreed. “I wonder. . . .” 

I knew they were speculating away, but I didn’t care. I 
was staring at the most beautiful face in the world. 
She was hot in my arms, reminding me of the 
moment when the blackness had almost won, when 
there was nothing in the world left to hold on to. 
Nothing strong enough to pull me through the 
crushing darkness. The moment when I’d thought of 
Renesmee and found something I would never let go 
of. 

“I remember you, too,” I told her quietly. 

It seemed very natural to lean in and press my lips to 
her forehead. She smelled wonderful. The scent of her 
skin set my throat burning, but it was easy to ignore. 
It didn’t strip the joy from the moment. Renesmee was 
real and I knew her. She was the same one I’d fought 
for from the beginning. My little nudger, the one who 
loved me from the inside, too. Half Edward, perfect 
and lovely. And half me — which, surprisingly, made 
her better rather than detracting. 

I’d been right all along. She was worth the fight. 

“She’s fine,” Alice murmured, probably to Jasper. I 
could feel them hovering, not trusting me. 

“Haven’t we experimented enough for one day?” Jacob 
asked, his voice a slightly higher pitch with stress. 
“Okay, Bella’s doing great, but let’s not push it.” 



497 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I glared at him with real irritation. Jasper shuffled 
uneasily next to me. We were all crowded so close 
that every tiny movement seemed very big. 

“What is your problem, Jacob?” I demanded. I tugged 
lightly against his hold on Renesmee, and he just 
stepped closer to me. He was pressed right up to me, 
Renesmee touching both of our chests. 

Edward hissed at him. “Just because I understand, it 
doesn’t mean I won’t throw you out, Jacob. Bella’s 
doing extraordinarily well. Don’t ruin the moment for 
her.” 

“I’ll help him toss you, dog,” Rosalie promised, her 
voice seething. “I owe you a good kick in the gut.” 
Obviously, there was no change in that relationship, 
unless it had gotten worse. 

I glared at Jacob’s anxious half-angry expression. His 
eyes were locked on Renesmee’s face. With everyone 
pressed together, he had to be touching at least six 
different vampires at the moment, and it didn’t even 
seem to bug him. 

Would he really go through all this just to protect me 
from myself? What could have happened during my 
transformation — my alteration into something he 
hated — that would soften him so much toward the 
reason for its necessity? 

I puzzled over it, watching him stare at my daughter. 
Staring at her like... like he was a blind man seeing 
the sun for the very first time. 

“No!” I gasped. 



498 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper’s teeth came together and Edward’s arms 
wrapped around my chest like constricting boas. 
Jacob had Renesmee out of my arms in the same 
second, and I did not try to hold on to her. Because I 
felt it coming — the snap that they’d all been waiting 
for. 

“Rose,” I said through my teeth, very slowly and 
precisely. “Take Renesmee.” 

Rosalie held her hands out, and Jacob handed my 
daughter to her at once. Both of them backed away 
from me. 

“Edward, I don’t want to hurt you, so please let go of 
me.” 

He hesitated. 

“Go stand in front of Renesmee,” I suggested. 

He deliberated, and then let me go. 

I leaned into my hunting crouch and took two slow 
steps forward toward Jacob. 

“You didn’t,” I snarled at him. 

He backed away, palms up, trying to reason with me. 
“You know it’s not something I can control.” 

“You stupid mutt! How could you? My baby! ” 

He backed out the front door now as I stalked him, 
half-running backward down the stairs. “It wasn’t my 
idea, Bella!” 



499 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ve held her all of one time, and already you think 
you have some moronic wolfy claim to her? She’s 
mine.” 

“I can share,” he said pleadingly as he retreated 
across the lawn. 

“Pay up,” I heard Emmett say behind me. A small part 
of my brain wondered who had bet against this 
outcome. I didn’t waste much attention on it. I was 
too furious. 

“How dare you imprint on my baby? Have you lost 
your mind?” 

“It was involuntary!” he insisted, backing into the 
trees. 

Then he wasn’t alone. The two huge wolves 
reappeared, flanking him on either side. Leah 
snapped at me. 

A fearsome snarl ripped through my teeth back at 
her. The sound disturbed me, but not enough to stop 
my advance. 

“Bella, would you try to listen for just a second? 
Please?” Jacob begged. “Leah, back off,” he added. 

Leah curled her lip at me and didn’t move. 

“Why should I listen?” I hissed. Fury reigned in my 
head. It clouded everything else out. 

“Because you’re the one who told me this. Do you 
remember? You said we belonged in each other’s 
lives, right? That we were family. You said that was 



500 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




how you and I were supposed to be. So... now we are. 
It’s what you wanted.” 

I glared ferociously. I did dimly remember those 
words. But my new quick brain was two steps ahead 
of his nonsense. 

“You think you 11 be part of my family as my son-in- 
law!” I screeched. My bell voice ripped through two 
octaves and still came out sounding like music. 
Emmett laughed. 

“Stop her, Edward,” Esme murmured. “Shell be 
unhappy if she hurts him.” 

But I felt no pursuit behind me. 

“No!” Jacob was insisting at the same time. “How can 
you even look at it that way? 

She’s just a baby, for crying out loud!” 

“That’s my point!” I yelled. 

“You know I don’t think of her that way! Do you think 
Edward would have let me live this long if I did? All I 
want is for her to be safe and happy — is that so bad? 
So different from what you want?” He was shouting 
right back at me. 

Beyond words, I shrieked a growl at him. 

“Amazing, isn’t she?” I heard Edward murmur. 

“She hasn’t gone for his throat even once,” Carlisle 
agreed, sounding stunned. 

“Fine, you win this one,” Emmett said grudgingly. 



501 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’re going to stay away from her,” I hissed up at 
Jacob. 

“I can’t do that!” 

Through my teeth: “Try. Starting now.” 

“It’s not possible. Do you remember how much you 
wanted me around three days ago? 

How hard it was to be apart from each other? That’s 
gone for you now, isn’t it?” 

I glared, not sure what he was implying. 

“That was her,” he told me. “From the very beginning. 
We had to be together, even then.” 

I remembered, and then I understood; a tiny part of 
me was relieved to have the madness explained. But 
that relief somehow only made me angrier. Was he 
expecting that to be enough for me? That one little 
clarification would make me okay with this? 

“Run away while you still can,” I threatened. 

“C’mon, Bells! Nessie likes me, too,” he insisted. 

I froze. My breathing stopped. Behind me, I heard the 
lack of sound that was their anxious reaction. 

“What... did you call her?” 

Jacob took a step farther back, managing to look 
sheepish. “Well,” he mumbled, “that name you came 
up with is kind of a mouthful and — ” 



502 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You nicknamed my daughter after the Loch Ness 
Monster?” I screeched. And then I lunged for his 
throat. 



503 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





“I’m so sorry, Seth. I should have been closer.” 

Edward was still apologizing, and I didn’t think that 
was either fair or appropriate. After all, Edward 
hadn’t completely and inexcusably lost control of his 
temper. Edward hadn’t tried to rip Jacob’s head off — 
Jacob, who wouldn’t even phase to protect himself 

— and then accidentally broken Seth’s shoulder and 
collarbone when he jumped in between. Edward 
hadn’t almost killed his best friend. 

Not that the best friend didn’t have a few things to 
answer for, but, obviously, nothing Jacob had done 
could have mitigated my behavior. 

So shouldn’t I have been the one apologizing? I tried 
again. 

“Seth, I—” 

“Don’t worry about it, Bella, I’m totally fine,” Seth said 
at the same time that Edward said, “Bella, love, no 
one is judging you. You’re doing so well.” 

They hadn’t let me finish a sentence yet. 

It only made it worse that Edward was having a 
difficult time keeping the smile off his face. I knew 
that Jacob didn’t deserve my overreaction, but 
Edward seemed to find something satisfying in it. 
Maybe he was just wishing that he had the excuse of 



504 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



being a newborn so that he could do something 
physical about his irritation with Jacob, too. I tried to 
erase the anger from my system entirely, but it was 
hard, knowing that Jacob was outside with Renesmee 
right now. Keeping her safe from me, the crazed 
newborn. Carlisle secured another piece of the brace 
to Seth’s arm, and Seth winced. 

“Sorry, sorry!” I mumbled, knowing I’d never get a 
fully articulated apology out. 

“Don’t freak, Bella,” Seth said, patting my knee with 
his good hand while Edward rubbed my arm from the 
other side. 

Seth seemed to feel no aversion to having me sit 
beside him on the sofa as Carlisle treated him. “I’ll be 
back to normal in half an hour,” he continued, still 
patting my knee as if oblivious to the cold, hard 
texture of it. “Anyone would have done the same, 
what with Jake and Ness — ” He broke off mid-word 
and changed the subject quickly. “I mean, at least 
you didn’t bite me or anything. That would’ve 
sucked.” 

I buried my face in my hands and shuddered at the 
thought, at the very real possibility. It could have 
happened so easily. And werewolves didn’t react to 
vampire venom the same way humans did, they’d told 
me only now. It was poison to them. 

“I’m a bad person.” 

“Of course you aren’t. I should have — ,” Edward 
started. 



505 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Stop that,” I sighed. I didn’t want him taking the 
blame for this the way he always took everything on 
himself. 

“Lucky thing Ness — Renesmee’s not venomous,” Seth 
said after a second of awkward silence. “’Cause she 
bites Jake all the time.” 

My hands dropped. “She does?” 

“Sure. Whenever he and Rose don’t get dinner in her 
mouth fast enough. Rose thinks it’s pretty hilarious.” 

I stared at him, shocked, and also feeling guilty, 
because I had to admit that this pleased me a teensy 
bit in a petulant way. 

Of course, I already knew that Renesmee wasn’t 
venomous. I was the first person she’d bitten. I didn’t 
make this observation aloud, as I was feigning 
memory loss on those recent events. 

“Well, Seth,” Carlisle said, straightening up and 
stepping away from us. “I think that’s as much as I 
can do. Try to not move for, oh, a few hours, I guess.” 
Carlisle chuckled. “I wish treating humans were this 
instantaneously gratifying.” He rested his hand for a 
moment on Seth’s black hair. “Stay still,” he ordered, 
and then he disappeared upstairs. I heard his office 
door close, and I wondered if they’d already removed 
the evidence of my time there. 

“I can probably manage sitting still for a while,” Seth 
agreed after Carlisle was already gone, and then he 
yawned hugely. Carefully, making sure not to tweak 
his shoulder, Seth leaned his head against the sofa’s 



506 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




back and closed his eyes. Seconds later, his mouth 
fell slack. 

I frowned at his peaceful face for another minute. Like 
Jacob, Seth seemed to have the gift of falling asleep at 
will. Knowing I wouldn’t be able to apologize again for 
a while, I got up; the motion didn’t jostle the couch in 
the slightest. Everything physical was so easy. But 
the rest... 

Edward followed me to the back windows and took 
my hand. 

Leah was pacing along the river, stopping every now 
and then to look at the house. It was easy to tell when 
she was looking for her brother and when she was 
looking for me. She alternated between anxious 
glances and murderous glares. 

I could hear Jacob and Rosalie outside on the front 
steps bickering quietly over whose turn it was to feed 
Renesmee. Their relationship was as antagonistic as 
ever; the only thing they agreed on now was that I 
should be kept away from my baby until I was one 
hundred percent recovered from my temper tantrum. 
Edward had disputed their verdict, but I’d let it go. I 
wanted to be sure, too. I was worried, though, that 
my one hundred percent sure and their one hundred 
percent sure might be very different things. Other 
than their squabbling, Seth’s slow breathing, and 
Leah’s annoyed panting, it was very quiet. Emmett, 
Alice, and Esme were hunting. Jasper had stayed 
behind to watch me. He stood unobtrusively behind 
the newel post now, trying not to be obnoxious about 
it. 



507 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I took advantage of the calm to think of all the things 
Edward and Seth had told me while Carlisle splinted 
Seth’s arm. I’d missed a whole lot while I was 
burning, and this was the first real chance to catch 
up. 

The main thing was the end of the feud with Sam’s 
pack — which was why the others felt safe to come and 
go as they pleased again. The truce was stronger than 
ever. Or more binding, depending on your viewpoint, I 
imagined. 

Binding, because the most absolute of all the pack’s 
laws was that no wolf ever kill the object of another 
wolf’s imprinting. The pain of such a thing would be 
intolerable for the whole pack. The fault, whether 
intended or accidental, could not be forgiven; the 
wolves involved would fight to the death — there was 
no other option. It had happened long ago, Seth told 
me, but only accidentally. No wolf would ever 
intentionally destroy a brother that way. 

So Renesmee was untouchable because of the way 
Jacob now felt about her. I tried to concentrate on the 
relief of this fact rather than the chagrin, but it wasn’t 
easy. My mind had enough room to feel both 
emotions intensely at the same time. And Sam 
couldn’t get mad about my transformation, either, 
because Jacob — speaking as the rightful Alpha — had 
allowed it. It rankled to realize over and over again 
how much I owed Jacob when I just wanted to be 
mad at him. 

I deliberately redirected my thoughts in order to 
control my emotions. I considered another interesting 



508 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




phenomenon; though the silence between the 
separate packs continued, Jacob and Sam had 
discovered that Alphas could speak to each other 
while in their wolf form. It wasn’t the same as before; 
they couldn’t hear every thought the way they had 
prior to the split. It was more like speaking aloud, 

Seth had said. Sam could only hear the thoughts 
Jacob wanted to share, and vice versa. They found 
they could communicate over distance, too, now that 
they were talking to each other again. They hadn’t 
found all this out until Jacob had gone alone — over 
Seth’s and Leah’s objections — to explain to Sam about 
Renesmee; it was the only time he’d left Renesmee 
since first laying eyes on her. 

Once Sam had understood how absolutely everything 
had changed, he’d come back with Jacob to talk to 
Carlisle. They’d spoken in human form (Edward had 
refused to leave my side to translate), and the treaty 
had been renewed. The friendly feeling of the 
relationship, however, might never be the same. 

One big worry down. 

But there was another that, though not as physically 
dangerous as an angry wolf pack, still seemed more 
urgent to me. 

Charlie. 

He’d spoken to Esme earlier this morning, but that 
hadn’t kept him from calling again, twice, just a few 
minutes ago while Carlisle treated Seth. Carlisle and 
Edward had let the phone ring. 



509 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




What would be the right thing to tell him? Were the 
Cullens right? Was telling him that I’d died the best, 
the kindest way? Would I be able to lie still in a coffin 
while he and my mother cried over me? 

It didn’t seem right to me. But putting Charlie or 
Renee in danger of the Volturi’s obsession with 
secrecy was clearly out of the question. 

There was still my idea — let Charlie see me, when I 
was ready for that, and let him make his own wrong 
assumptions. Technically, the vampire rules would 
remain unbroken. Wouldn’t it be better for Charlie if 
he knew that I was alive — sort of — and happy? Even if 
I was strange and different and probably frightening 
to him? 

My eyes, in particular, were much too frightening 
right now. How long before my selfcontrol and my eye 
color were ready for Charlie? 

“What’s the matter, Bella?” Jasper asked quietly, 
reading my growing tension. “No one is angry with 
you” — a low snarl from the riverside contradicted him, 
but he ignored it 

— “or even surprised, really. Well, I suppose we are 
surprised. Surprised that you were able to snap out of 
it so quickly. You did well. Better than anyone expects 
of you.” 

While he was speaking, the room became very calm. 
Seth’s breathing slipped into a low snore. I felt more 
peaceful, but I didn’t forget my anxieties. 

“I was thinking about Charlie, actually.” 



510 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Out front, the bickering cut off. 

“Ah,” Jasper murmured. 

“We really have to leave, don’t we?” I asked. “For a 
while, at the very least. Pretend we’re in Atlanta or 
something.” 

I could feel Edward’s gaze locked on my face, but I 
looked at Jasper. He was the one who answered me in 
a grave tone. 

“Yes. It’s the only way to protect your father.” 

I brooded for a moment. “I’m going to miss him so 
much. I’ll miss everyone here.” 

Jacob, I thought, despite myself. Though that 
yearning was both vanished and defined 

— and I was vastly relieved that it was — he was still 
my friend. Someone who knew the real me and 
accepted her. Even as a monster. 

I thought about what Jacob had said, pleading with 
me before I’d attacked him. You said we belonged in 
each other’s lives, right? That we were family. You 
said that was how you and I were supposed to be. 

So... now we are. It’s what you wanted. But it didn’t 
feel like how I’d wanted it. Not exactly. I remembered 
further back, to the fuzzy, weak memories of my 
human life. Back to the very hardest part to 
remember — 

the time without Edward, a time so dark I’d tried to 
bury it in my head. I couldn’t get the words exactly 
right; I only remembered wishing that Jacob were my 



511 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




brother so that we could love each other without any 
confusion or pain. Family. But I’d never factored a 
daughter into the equation. 

I remembered a little later — one of the many times 
that I’d told Jacob goodbye — 

wondering aloud who he would end up with, who 
would make his life right after what I’d done to it. I 
had said something about how whoever she was, she 
wouldn’t be good enough for him. 

I snorted, and Edward raised one eyebrow 
questioningly. I just shook my head at him. But as 
much as I might miss my friend, I knew there was a 
bigger problem. Had Sam or Jared or Quil ever gone a 
whole day without seeing the objects of their 
fixations, Emily, Kim, and Claire? Could they? What 
would the separation from Renesmee do to Jacob? 

Would it cause him pain? 

There was still enough petty ire in my system to make 
me glad, not for his pain, but for the idea of having 
Renesmee away from him. How was I supposed to 
deal with having her belong to Jacob when she only 
barely seemed to belong to me? 

The sound of movement on the front porch 
interrupted my thoughts. I heard them get up, and 
then they were through the door. At exactly the same 
time, Carlisle came down the stairs with his hands 
full of odd things — a measuring tape, a scale. Jasper 
darted to my side. As if there was some signal I’d 
missed, even Leah sat down outside and stared 
through the window with an expression like she was 



512 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




expecting something that was both familiar and also 
totally uninteresting. 

“Must be six,” Edward said. 

“So?” I asked, my eyes locked on Rosalie, Jacob, and 
Renesmee. They stood in the doorway, Renesmee in 
Rosalie’s arms. Rose looked wary. Jacob looked 
troubled. Renesmee looked beautiful and impatient. 

“Time to measure Ness — er, Renesmee,” Carlisle 
explained. 

“Oh. You do this every day?” 

“Four times a day,” Carlisle corrected absently as he 
motioned the others toward the couch. I thought I 
saw Renesmee sigh. 

“Four times? Every day? Why?” 

“She’s still growing quickly,” Edward murmured to 
me, his voice quiet and strained. He squeezed my 
hand, and his other arm wrapped securely around my 
waist, almost as if he needed the support. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off Renesmee to check his 
expression. 

She looked perfect, absolutely healthy. Her skin 
glowed like backlit alabaster; the color in her cheeks 
was rose petals against it. There couldn’t be anything 
wrong with such radiant beauty. Surely there could 
be nothing more dangerous in her life than her 
mother. Could there? 



513 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The difference between the child I’d given birth to and 
the one I’d met again an hour ago would have been 
obvious to anyone. The difference between Renesmee 
an hour ago and Renesmee now was subtler. Human 
eyes never would have detected it. But it was there. 

Her body was slightly longer. Just a little bit slimmer. 
Her face wasn’t quite as round; it was more oval by 
one minute degree. Her ringlets hung a sixteenth of 
an inch lower down her shoulders. She stretched out 
helpfully in Rosalie’s arms while Carlisle ran the tape 
measure down the length of her and then used it to 
circle her head. He took no notes; perfect recall. 

I was aware that Jacob’s arms were crossed as tightly 
over his chest as Edward’s arms were locked around 
me. His heavy brows were mashed together into one 
line over his deep-set eyes. 

She had matured from a single cell to a normal-sized 
baby in the course of a few weeks. She looked well on 
her way to being a toddler just days after her birth. If 
this rate of growth held... 

My vampire mind had no trouble with the math. 

“What do we do?” I whispered, horrified. 

Edward’s arms tightened. He understood exactly what 
I was asking. “I don’t know.” 

“It’s slowing,” Jacob muttered through his teeth. 

“Well need several more days of measurements to 
track the trend, Jacob. I can’t make any promises.” 

“Yesterday she grew two inches. Today it’s less.” 



514 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“By a thirty-second of an inch, if my measurements 
are perfect,” Carlisle said quietly. 

“Be perfect, Doc,” Jacob said, making the words 
almost threatening. Rosalie stiffened. 

“You know I’ll do my best,” Carlisle assured him. 

Jacob sighed. “Guess that’s all I can ask.” 

I felt irritated again, like Jacob was stealing my 
lines — and delivering them all wrong. Renesmee 
seemed irritated, too. She started to squirm and then 
reached her hand imperiously toward Rosalie. Rosalie 
leaned forward so that Renesmee could touch her 
face. After a second, Rose sighed. 

“What does she want?” Jacob demanded, taking my 
line again. 

“Bella, of course,” Rosalie told him, and her words 
made my insides feel a little warmer. Then she looked 
at me. “How are you?” 

“Worried,” I admitted, and Edward squeezed me. 

“We all are. But that’s not what I meant.” 

“I’m in control,” I promised. Thirstiness was way 
down the list right now. Besides, Renesmee smelled 
good in a very non-food way. 

Jacob bit his lip but made no move to stop Rosalie as 
she offered Renesmee to me. Jasper and Edward 
hovered but allowed it. I could see how tense Rose 
was, and I wondered how the room felt to Jasper right 



515 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




now. Or was he focusing so hard on me that he 
couldn’t feel the others? 

Renesmee reached for me as I reached for her, a 
blinding smile lighting her face. She fit so easily in my 
arms, like they’d been shaped just for her. 
Immediately, she put her hot little hand against my 
cheek. 

Though I was prepared, it still made me gasp to see 
the memory like a vision in my head. So bright and 
colorful but also completely transparent. 

She was remembering me charging Jacob across the 
front lawn, remembering Seth leaping between us. 
She’d seen and heard it all with perfect clarity. It 
didn’t look like me, this graceful predator leaping at 
her prey like an arrow arcing from a bow. It had to be 
someone else. That made me feel a very small bit less 
guilty as Jacob stood there defenselessly with his 
hands raised in front of him. His hands did not 
tremble. Edward chuckled, watching Renesmee ’s 
thoughts with me. And then we both winced as we 
heard the crack of Seth’s bones. 

Renesmee smiled her brilliant smile, and her memory 
eyes did not leave Jacob through all the following 
mess. I tasted a new flavor to the memory — not 
exactly protective, more possessive — as she watched 
Jacob. I got the distinct impression that she was glad 
Seth had put himself in front of my spring. She didn’t 
want Jacob hurt. He was hers. 

“Oh, wonderful,” I groaned. “Perfect.” 



516 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s just because he tastes better than the rest of us,” 
Edward assured me, voice stiff with his own 
annoyance. 

“I told you she likes me, too,” Jacob teased from 
across the room, his eyes on Renesmee. His joking 
was halfhearted; the tense angle of his eyebrows had 
not relaxed. Renesmee patted my face impatiently, 
demanding my attention. Another memory: Rosalie 
pulling a brush gently through each of her curls. It 
felt nice. Carlisle and his tape measure, knowing she 
had to stretch and be still. It was not interesting to 
her. 

“It looks like she’s going to give you a rundown of 
everything you missed,” Edward commented in my 
ear. 

My nose wrinkled as she dumped the next one on me. 
The smell coming from a strange metal cup — hard 
enough not to be bitten through easily — sent a flash 
burn through my throat. Ouch. 

And then Renesmee was out of my arms, which were 
pinned behind my back. I didn’t struggle with Jasper; 
I just looked at Edward’s frightened face. 

“What did I do?” 

Edward looked at Jasper behind me, and then at me 
again. 

“But she was remembering being thirsty,” Edward 
muttered, his forehead pressing into lines. “She was 
remembering the taste of human blood.” 



517 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper’s arms pulled mine tighter together. Part of my 
head noted that this wasn’t particularly 
uncomfortable, let alone painful, as it would have 
been to a human. It was just annoying. I was sure I 
could break his hold, but I didn’t fight it. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “And?” 

Edward frowned at me for a second more, and then 
his expression loosened. He laughed once. “And 
nothing at all, it seems. The overreaction is mine this 
time. Jazz, let her go.” 

The binding hands disappeared. I reached out for 
Renesmee as soon as I was free. Edward handed her 
to me without hesitation. 

“I can’t understand,” Jasper said. “I can’t bear this.” 

I watched in surprise as Jasper strode out the back 
door. Leah moved to give him a wide margin of space 
as he paced to the river and then launched himself 
over it in one bound. Renesmee touched my neck, 
repeating the scene of departure right back, like an 
instant replay. I could feel the question in her 
thought, an echo of mine. I was already over the 
shock of her odd little gift. It seemed an entirely 
natural part of her, almost to be expected. Maybe now 
that I was part of the supernatural myself, I would 
never be a skeptic again. 

But what was wrong with Jasper? 

“He’ll be back,” Edward said, whether to me or 
Renesmee, I wasn’t sure. “He just needs a moment 



518 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




alone to readjust his perspective on life.” There was a 
grin threatening at the corners of his mouth. 

Another human memory — Edward telling me that 
Jasper would feel better about himself if I “had a hard 
time adjusting” to being a vampire. This was in the 
context of a discussion about how many people I 
would kill my first newborn year. 

“Is he mad at me?” I asked quietly. 

Edward’s eyes widened. “No. Why would he be?” 

“What’s the matter with him, then?” 

“He’s upset with himself, not you, Bella. He’s worrying 
about... self-fulfilling prophecy, I suppose you could 
say.” 

“How so?” Carlisle asked before I could. 

“He’s wondering if the newborn madness is really as 
difficult as we’ve always thought, or if, with the right 
focus and attitude, anyone could do as well as Bella. 
Even now — 

perhaps he only has such difficulty because he 
believes it’s natural and unavoidable. Maybe if he 
expected more of himself, he would rise to those 
expectations. You’re making him question a lot of 
deep-rooted assumptions, Bella.” 

“But that’s unfair,” Carlisle said. “Everyone is 
different; everyone has their own challenges. Perhaps 
what Bella is doing goes beyond the natural. Maybe 
this is her gift, so to speak.” 



519 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I froze with surprise. Renesmee felt the change, and 
touched me. She remembered the last second of time 
and wondered why. 

“That’s an interesting theory, and quite plausible,” 
Edward said. For a tiny space, I was disappointed. 
What? No magic visions, no formidable offensive 
abilities like, oh, shooting lightning bolts from my 
eyes or something? Nothing helpful or cool at all? 

And then I realized what that might mean, if my 
“superpower” was no more than exceptional self- 
control. 

For one thing, at least I had a gift. It could have been 
nothing. But, much more than that, if Edward was 
right, then I could skip right over the part I’d feared 
the very most. 

What if I didn’t have to be a newborn? Not in the 
crazed killing-machine sense, anyway. What if I could 
fit right in with the Cullens from my first day? What if 
we didn’t have to hide out somewhere remote for a 
year while I “grew up”? What if, like Carlisle, I never 
killed a single person? What if I could be a good 
vampire right away? 

I could see Charlie. 

I sighed as soon as reality filtered through hope. I 
couldn’t see Charlie right away. The eyes, the voice, 
the perfected face. What could I possibly say to him; 
how could I even begin? I was furtively glad that I had 
some excuses for putting things off for a while; as 
much as I wanted to find some way to keep Charlie in 
my life, I was terrified of that first meeting. Seeing his 



520 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




eyes pop as he took in my new face, my new skin. 
Knowing that he was frightened. Wondering what 
dark explanation would form in his head. I was 
chicken enough to wait for a year while my eyes 
cooled. And here I’d thought I would be so fearless 
when I was indestructible. 

“Have you ever seen an equivalent to self-control as a 
talent?” Edward asked Carlisle. 

“Do you really think that’s a gift, or just a product of 
all her preparation?” 

Carlisle shrugged. “It’s slightly similar to what 
Siobhan has always been able to do, though she 
wouldn’t call it a gift.” 

“Siobhan, your friend in that Irish coven?” Rosalie 
asked. “I wasn’t aware that she did anything special. I 
thought it was Maggie who was talented in that 
bunch.” 

“Yes, Siobhan thinks the same. But she has this way 
of deciding her goals and then almost... willing them 
into reality. She considers it good planning, but I’ve 
always wondered if it was something more. When she 
included Maggie, for instance. Liam was very 
territorial, but Siobhan wanted it to work out, and so 
it did.” 

Edward, Carlisle, and Rosalie settled into chairs as 
they continued with the discussion. Jacob sat next to 
Seth protectively, looking bored. From the way his 
eyelids drooped, I was sure he’d be unconscious 
momentarily. 



521 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I listened, but my attention was divided. Renesmee 
was still telling me about her day. I held her by the 
window wall, my arms rocking her automatically as 
we stared into each other’s eyes. 

I realized that the others had no reason for sitting 
down. I was perfectly comfortable standing. It was 
just as restful as stretching out on a bed would be. I 
knew I would be able to stand like this for a week 
without moving and I would feel just as relaxed at the 
end of the seven days as I did at the beginning. 

They must sit out of habit. Humans would notice 
someone standing for hours without ever shifting her 
weight to a different foot. Even now, I saw Rosalie 
brush her fingers against her hair and Carlisle cross 
his legs. Little motions to keep from being too still, too 
much a vampire. I would have to pay attention to 
what they did and start practicing. I rolled my weight 
back to my left leg. It felt kind of silly. 

Maybe they were just trying to give me a little alone 
time with my baby — as alone as was safe. 

Renesmee told me about every minute happening of 
the day, and I got the feeling from the tenor of her 
little stories that she wanted me to know her every bit 
as much I wanted the same thing. It worried her that 
I had missed things — like the sparrows that had 
hopped closer and closer when Jacob had held her, 
both of them very still beside one of the big hemlocks; 
the birds wouldn’t come close to Rosalie. Or the 
outrageously icky white stuff — baby formula — that 
Carlisle had put in her cup; it smelled like sour dirt. 
Or the song Edward had crooned to her that was so 



522 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




perfect Renesmee played it for me twice; I was 
surprised that I was in the background of that 
memory, perfectly motionless but looking fairly 
battered still. I shuddered, remembering that time 
from my own perspective. The hideous fire... 

After almost an hour — the others were still deeply 
absorbed in their discussion, Seth and Jacob snoring 
in harmony on the couch — Renesmee’s memory 
stories began to slow. They got slightly blurry around 
the edges and drifted out of focus before they came to 
their conclusions. I was about to interrupt Edward in 
a panic — was there something wrong with her? — when 
her eyelids fluttered and closed. She yawned, her 
plump pink lips stretching into a round O, and her 
eyes never reopened. Her hand fell away from my face 
as she drifted to sleep — the backs of her eyelids were 
the pale lavender color of thin clouds before the 
sunrise. Careful not to disturb her, I lifted that hand 
back to my skin and held it there curiously. At first 
there was nothing, and then, after a few minutes, a 
flickering of colors like a handful of butterflies were 
scattering from her thoughts. 

Mesmerized, I watched her dreams. There was no 
sense to it. Just colors and shapes and faces. I was 
pleased by how often my face — both of my faces, 
hideous human and glorious immortal — cropped up 
in her unconscious thoughts. More than Edward or 
Rosalie. I was neck and neck with Jacob; I tried not to 
let that get to me. For the first time, I understood how 
Edward had been able to watch me sleep night after 
boring night, just to hear me talk in my sleep. I could 
watch Renesmee dream forever. The change in 



523 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s tone caught my attention when he said, 
“Finally,” and turned to gaze out the window. It was 
deep, purply night outside, but I could see just as far 
as before. Nothing was hidden in the darkness; 
everything had just changed colors. Leah, still 
glowering, got up and slunk into the brush just as 
Alice came into view on the other side of the river. 
Alice swung back and forth from a branch like a 
trapeze artist, toes touching hands, before throwing 
her body into a graceful flat spin over the river. Esme 
made a more traditional leap, while Emmett charged 
right through the water, splashing water so far that 
splatters hit the back windows. To my surprise, 

Jasper followed after, his own efficient leap seeming 
understated, even subtle, after the others. The huge 
grin stretching Alice’s face was familiar in a dim, odd 
way. Everyone was suddenly smiling at me — Esme 
sweet, Emmett excited, Rosalie a little superior, 
Carlisle indulgent, and Edward expectant. 

Alice skipped into the room ahead of everyone else, 
her hand stretched out in front of her and impatience 
making a nearly visible aura around her. In her palm 
was an everyday brass key with an oversized pink 
satin bow tied around it. She held the key out for me, 
and I automatically gripped Renesmee more securely 
in my right arm so that I could open my left. Alice 
dropped the key into it. 

“Happy birthday!” she squealed. 

I rolled my eyes. “No one starts counting on the actual 
day of birth,” I reminded her. 

“Your first birthday is at the year mark, Alice.” 



524 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Her grin turned smug. “We’re not celebrating your 
vampire birthday. Yet. It’s September thirteenth, 
Bella. Happy nineteenth birthday!” 



525 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





“No. No way!” I shook my head fiercely and then shot 
a glance at the smug smile on my seventeen-year-old 
husband’s face. “No, this doesn’t count. I stopped 
aging three days ago. I am eighteen forever.” 

“Whatever,” Alice said, dismissing my protest with a 
quick shrug. “We’re celebrating anyway, so suck it 
up.” 

I sighed. There was rarely a point to arguing with 
Alice. 

Her grin got impossibly wider as she read the 
acquiescence in my eyes. 

“Are you ready to open your present?” Alice sang. 

“Present s,” Edward corrected, and he pulled another 
key — this one longer and silver with a less gaudy blue 
bow — from his pocket. 

I struggled to keep from rolling my eyes. I knew 
immediately what this key was to — the 

“after car.” I wondered if I should feel excited. It 
seemed the vampire conversion hadn’t given me any 
sudden interest in sports cars. 

“Mine first,” Alice said, and then stuck her tongue 
out, foreseeing his answer. 

“Mine is closer.” 



526 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“But look at how she’s dressed.” Alice’s words were 
almost a moan. “It’s been killing me all day. That is 
clearly the priority.” 

My eyebrows pulled together as I wondered how a key 
could get me into new clothes. Had she gotten me a 
whole trunkful? 

“I know — I’ll play you for it,” Alice suggested. “Rock, 
paper, scissors.” 

Jasper chuckled and Edward sighed. 

“Why you don’t you just tell me who wins?” Edward 
said wryly. 

Alice beamed. “I do. Excellent.” 

“It’s probably better that I wait for morning, anyway.” 
Edward smiled crookedly at me and then nodded 
toward Jacob and Seth, who looked like they were 
crashed for the night; I wonder how long they’d stayed 
up this time. “I think it might be more fun if Jacob 
was awake for the big reveal, don’t you agree? So that 
someone there is able to express the right level of 
enthusiasm?” 

I grinned back. He knew me well. 

“Yay,” Alice sang. “Bella, give Ness — Renesmee to 
Rosalie.” 

“Where does she usually sleep?” 

Alice shrugged. “In Rose’s arms. Or Jacob’s. Or 
Esme’s. You get the picture. She has never been set 



527 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




down in her entire life. She’s going to be the most 
spoiled half- vampire in existence.” 

Edward laughed while Rosalie took Renesmee expertly 
in her arms. “She is also the most un spoiled half- 
vampire in existence,” Rosalie said. “The beauty of 
being one of a kind.” 

Rosalie grinned at me, and I was glad to see that the 
new comradeship between us was still there in her 
smile. I hadn’t been entirely sure it would last after 
Renesmee ’s life was no longer tied to mine. But 
maybe we had fought together on the same side long 
enough that we would always be friends now. I’d 
finally made the same choice she would have if she’d 
been in my shoes. That seemed to have washed away 
her resentment for all my other choices. 

Alice shoved the beribboned key in my hand, then 
grabbed my elbow and steered me toward the back 
door. “Let’s go, let’s go,” she trilled. 

“Is it outside?” 

“Sort of,” Alice said, pushing me forward. 

“Enjoy your gift,” Rosalie said. “It’s from all of us. 
Esme especially.” 

“Aren’t you coming, too?” I realized that no one had 
moved. 

“Well give you a chance to appreciate it alone,” 

Rosalie said. “You can tell us about it... later.” 

Emmett guffawed. Something about his laugh made 
me feel like blushing, though I wasn’t sure why. 



528 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I realized that lots of things about me — like truly 
hating surprises, and not liking gifts in general much 
more — had not changed one bit. It was a relief and 
revelation to discover how much of my essential core 
traits had come with me into this new body. I hadn’t 
expected to be myself. I smiled widely. 

Alice tugged my elbow, and I couldn’t stop smiling as 
I followed her into the purple night. Only Edward 
came with us. 

“There’s the enthusiasm I’m looking for,” Alice 
murmured approvingly. Then she dropped my arm, 
made two lithe bounds, and leaped over the river. 

“C’mon, Bella,” she called from the other side. 

Edward jumped at the same time I did; it was every 
bit as fun as it had been this afternoon. Maybe a little 
bit more fun because the night changed everything 
into new, rich colors. 

Alice took off with us on her heels, heading due north. 
It was easier to follow the sound of her feet 
whispering against the ground and the fresh path of 
her scent than it was to keep my eyes on her through 
the thick vegetation. 

At no sign I could see, she whirled and dashed back 
to where I paused. 

“Don’t attack me,” she warned, and sprang at me. 

“What are you doing?” I demanded, squirming as she 
scrambled onto my back and wrapped her hands 
around my face. I felt the urge to throw her off, but I 
controlled it. 

529 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Making sure you can’t see.” 

“I could take care of that without the theatrics,” 
Edward offered. 

“You might let her cheat. Take her hand and lead her 
forward.” 

“Alice, I—” 

“Don’t bother, Bella. We’re doing this my way.” 

I felt Edward’s fingers weave through mine. “Just a 
few seconds more, Bella. Then she’ll go annoy 
someone else.” He pulled me forward. I kept up easily. 
I wasn’t afraid of hitting a tree; the tree would be the 
only one getting hurt in that scenario. 

“You might be a little more appreciative,” Alice chided 
him. “This is as much for you as it is for her.” 

“True. Thank you again, Alice.” 

“Yeah, yeah. Okay.” Alice’s voice suddenly shot up 
with excitement. “Stop there. Turn her just a little to 
the right. Yes, like that. Okay. Are you ready?” she 
squeaked. 

“I’m ready.” There were new scents here, piquing my 
interest, increasing my curiosity. Scents that didn’t 
belong in the deep woods. Honeysuckle. Smoke. 

Roses. Sawdust? 

Something metallic, too. The richness of deep earth, 
dug up and exposed. I leaned toward the mystery. 

Alice hopped down from my back, releasing her grip 
on my eyes. 

530 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared into the violet dark. There, nestled into a 
small clearing in the forest, was a tiny stone cottage, 
lavender gray in the light of the stars. 

It belonged here so absolutely that it seemed as if it 
must have grown from the rock, a natural formation. 
Honeysuckle climbed up one wall like a lattice, 
winding all the way up and over the thick wooden 
shingles. Late summer roses bloomed in a 
handkerchiefsized garden under the dark, deep-set 
windows. There was a little path of flat stones, 
amethyst in the night, that led up to the quaint 
arched wooden door. I curled my hand around the 
key I held, shocked. 

“What do you think?” Alice’s voice was soft now; it fit 
with the perfect quiet of the storybook scene. 

I opened my mouth but said nothing. 

“Esme thought we might like a place of our own for a 
while, but she didn’t want us too far away,” Edward 
murmured. “And she loves any excuse to renovate. 
This little place has been crumbling away out here for 
at least a hundred years.” 

I continued staring, mouth gaping like a fish. 

“Don’t you like it?” Alice’s face fell. “I mean, I’m sure 
we could fix it up differently, if you want. Emmett was 
all for adding a few thousand square feet, a second 
story, columns, and a tower, but Esme thought you 
would like it best the way it was meant to look.” Her 
voice started to climb, to go faster. “If she was wrong, 
we can get back to work. It won’t take long to — ” 



531 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Shh!” I managed. 

She pressed her lips together and waited. It took me a 
few seconds to recover. 

“You’re giving me a house for my birthday?” I 
whispered. 

“Us,” Edward corrected. “And it’s no more than a 
cottage. I think the word house implies more 
legroom.” 

“No knocking my house,” I whispered to him. 

Alice beamed. “You like it.” 

I shook my head. 

“Love it?” 

I nodded. 

“I can’t wait to tell Esme!” 

“Why didn’t she come?” 

Alice’s smile faded a little, twisted just off what it had 
been, like my question was hard to answer. “Oh, you 
know. . . they all remember how you are about 
presents. They didn’t want to put you under too much 
pressure to like it.” 

“But of course I love it. How could I not?” 

“They’ll like that.” She patted my arm. “Anyhoo, your 
closet is stocked. Use it wisely. And... I guess that’s 
everything.” 

“Aren’t you going to come inside?” 



532 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She strolled casually a few feet back. “Edward knows 
his way around. I’ll stop by... 

later. Call me if you can’t match your clothes right.” 
She threw me a doubtful look and then smiled. “Jazz 
wants to hunt. See you.” 

She shot off into the trees like the most graceful 
bullet. 

“That was weird,” I said when the sound of her flight 
had vanished completely. “Am I really that bad? They 
didn’t have to stay away. Now I feel guilty. I didn’t 
even thank her right. We should go back, tell Esme — ” 

“Bella, don’t be silly. No one thinks you’re that 
unreasonable . ” 

“Then what—” 

“Alone time is their other gift. Alice was trying to be 
subtle about it.” 

“Oh.” 

That was all it took to make the house disappear. We 
could have been anywhere. I didn’t see the trees or 
the stones or the stars. It was just Edward. 

“Let me show you what they’ve done,” he said, pulling 
my hand. Was he oblivious to the fact that an electric 
current was pulsing through my body like adrenaline- 
spiked blood? 

Once again I felt oddly off balance, waiting for 
reactions my body wasn’t capable of anymore. My 
heart should have been thundering like a steam 



533 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




engine about to hit us. Deafening. My cheeks should 
have been brilliant red. 

For that matter, I ought to have been exhausted. This 
had been the longest day of my life. 

I laughed out loud — just one quiet little laugh of 
shock — when I realized that this day would never end. 

“Do I get to hear the joke?” 

“It’s not a very good one,” I told him as he led the way 
to the little rounded door. “I was just thinking — today 
is the first and last day of forever. It’s kind of hard to 
wrap my head around it. Even with all this extra 
room for wrapping.” I laughed again. He chuckled 
with me. He held his hand out toward the doorknob, 
waiting for me to do the honors. I stuck the key in the 
lock and turned it. 

“You’re such a natural at this, Bella; I forget how very 
strange this all must be for you. I wish I could hear 
it.” He ducked down and yanked me up into his arms 
so fast that I didn’t see it coming — and that was really 
something. 

“Hey!” 

“Thresholds are part of my job description,” he 
reminded me. “But I’m curious. Tell me what you’re 
thinking about right now.” 

He opened the door — it fell back with a barely audible 
creak — and stepped through into the little stone living 
room. 



534 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Everything,” I told him. “All at the same time, you 
know. Good things and things to worry about and 
things that are new. How I keep using too many 
superlatives in my head. Right now, I’m thinking that 
Esme is an artist. It’s so perfect!” 

The cottage room was something from a fairy tale. The 
floor was a crazy quilt of smooth, flat stones. The low 
ceiling had long exposed beams that someone as tall 
as Jacob would surely knock his head on. The walls 
were warm wood in some places, stone mosaics in 
others. The beehive fireplace in the corner held the 
remains of a slow flickering fire. It was driftwood 
burning there — the low flames were blue and green 
from the salt. 

It was furnished in eclectic pieces, not one of them 
matching another, but harmonious just the same. 

One chair seemed vaguely medieval, while a low 
ottoman by the fire was more contemporary and the 
stocked bookshelf against the far window reminded 
me of movies set in Italy. Somehow each piece fit 
together with the others like a big threedimensional 
puzzle. There were a few paintings on the walls that I 
recognized — some of my very favorites from the big 
house. Priceless originals, no doubt, but they seemed 
to belong here, too, like all the rest. 

It was a place where anyone could believe magic 
existed. A place where you just expected Snow White 
to walk right in with her apple in hand, or a unicorn 
to stop and nibble at the rosebushes. 

Edward had always thought that he belonged to the 
world of horror stories. Of course, I’d known he was 



535 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




dead wrong. It was obvious that he belonged here. In 
a fairy tale. And now I was in the story with him. 

I was about to take advantage of the fact that he 
hadn’t gotten around to setting me back on my feet 
and that his wits-scramblingly beautiful face was only 
inches away when he said, “We’re lucky Esme 
thought to add an extra room. No one was planning 
for Ness — 

Renesmee.” 

I frowned at him, my thoughts channeled down a less 
pleasant path. 

“Not you, too,” I complained. 

“Sorry, love. I hear it in their thoughts all the time, 
you know. It’s rubbing off on me.” 

I sighed. My baby, the sea serpent. Maybe there was 
no help for it. Well, I wasn’t giving in. 

“I’m sure you’re dying to see the closet. Or, at least I’ll 
tell Alice that you were, to make her feel good.” 

“Should I be afraid?” 

“Terrified.” 

He carried me down a narrow stone hallway with tiny 
arches in the ceiling, like it was our own miniature 
castle. 

“That will be Renesmee’s room,” he said, nodding to 
an empty room with a pale wooden floor. “They didn’t 
have time to do much with it, what with the angry 
werewolves. ...” 



536 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I laughed quietly, amazed at how quickly everything 
had turned right when it had all had looked so 
nightmarish just a week ago. 

Drat Jacob for making everything perfect this way. 

“Here’s our room. Esme tried to bring some of her 
island back here for us. She guessed that we would 
get attached.” 

The bed was huge and white, with clouds of gossamer 
floating down from the canopy to the floor. The pale 
wood floor matched the other room, and now I 
grasped that it was precisely the color of a pristine 
beach. The walls were that almost-white-blue of a 
brilliant sunny day, and the back wall had big glass 
doors that opened into a little hidden garden. 
Climbing roses and a small round pond, smooth as a 
mirror and edged with shiny stones. A tiny, calm 
ocean for us. 

“Oh” was all I could say. 

“I know,” he whispered. 

We stood there for a minute, remembering. Though 
the memories were human and clouded, they took 
over my mind completely. 

He smiled a wide, gleaming smile and then laughed. 
“The closet is through those double doors. I should 
warn you — it’s bigger than this room.” 

I didn’t even glance at the doors. There was nothing 
else in the world but him again — 



537 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




his arms curled under me, his sweet breath on my 
face, his lips just inches from mine — 

and there was nothing that could distract me now, 
newborn vampire or not. 

“We’re going to tell Alice that I ran right to the 
clothes,” I whispered, twisting my fingers into his hair 
and pulling my face closer to his. “We’re going to tell 
her I spent hours in there playing dress-up. We’re 
going to lie.” 

He caught up to my mood in an instant, or maybe 
he’d already been there, and he was just trying to let 
me fully appreciate my birthday present, like a 
gentleman. He pulled my face to his with a sudden 
fierceness, a low moan in his throat. The sound sent 
the electric current running through my body into a 
near-frenzy, like I couldn’t get close enough to him 
fast enough. 

I heard the fabric tearing under our hands, and I was 
glad my clothes, at least, were already destroyed. It 
was too late for his. It felt almost rude to ignore the 
pretty white bed, but we just weren’t going to make it 
that far. 

This second honeymoon wasn’t like our first. 

Our time on the island had been the epitome of my 
human life. The very best of it. I’d been so ready to 
string along my human time, just to hold on to what I 
had with him for a little while longer. Because the 
physical part wasn’t going to be the same ever again. I 
should have guessed, after a day like today, that it 
would be better. I could really appreciate him now — 



538 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




could properly see every beautiful line of his perfect 
face, of his long, flawless body with my strong new 
eyes, every angle and every plane of him. I could taste 
his pure, vivid scent on my tongue and feel the 
unbelievable silkiness of his marble skin under my 
sensitive fingertips. 

My skin was so sensitive under his hands, too. 

He was all new, a different person as our bodies 
tangled gracefully into one on the sandpale floor. No 
caution, no restraint. No fear — especially not that. We 
could love together — both active participants now. 
Finally equals. 

Like our kisses before, every touch was more than I 
was used to. So much of himself he’d been holding 
back. Necessary at the time, but I couldn’t believe 
how much I’d been missing. 

I tried to keep in mind that I was stronger than he 
was, but it was hard to focus on anything with 
sensations so intense, pulling my attention to a 
million different places in my body every second; if I 
hurt him, he didn’t complain. 

A very, very small part of my head considered the 
interesting conundrum presented in this situation. I 
was never going to get tired, and neither was he. We 
didn’t have to catch our breath or rest or eat or even 
use the bathroom; we had no more mundane human 
needs. He had the most beautiful, perfect body in the 
world and I had him all to myself, and it didn’t feel 
like I was ever going to find a point where I would 
think, Now I’ve had enough for one day. I was always 



539 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




going to want more. And the day was never going to 
end. So, in such a situation, how did we ever stop? 

It didn’t bother me at all that I had no answer. 

I sort of noticed when the sky began to lighten. The 
tiny ocean outside turned from black to gray, and a 
lark started to sing somewhere very close by — maybe 
she had a nest in the roses. 

“Do you miss it?” I asked him when her song was 
done. 

It wasn’t the first time we’d spoken, but we weren’t 
exactly keeping up a conversation, either. 

“Miss what?” he murmured. 

“All of it — the warmth, the soft skin, the tasty smell... 
I’m not losing anything at all, and I just wondered if it 
was a little bit sad for you that you were.” 

He laughed, low and gentle. “It would be hard to find 
someone less sad than I am now. Impossible, I’d 
venture. Not many people get every single thing they 
want, plus all the things they didn’t think to ask for, 
in the same day.” 

“Are you avoiding the question?” 

He pressed his hand against my face. “You are warm,” 
he told me. It was true, in a sense. To me, his hand 
was warm. It wasn’t the same as touching Jacob’s 
flame-hot skin, but it was more comfortable. More 
natural. Then he pulled his fingers very slowly down 
my face, lightly tracing from my jaw to my throat and 



540 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




then all the way down to my waist. My eyes rolled 
back into my head a little. 

“You are soft.” 

His fingers were like satin against my skin, so I could 
see what he meant. 

“And as for the scent, well, I couldn’t say I missed 
that. Do you remember the scent of those hikers on 
our hunt?” 

“I’ve been trying very hard not to.” 

“Imagine kissing that.” 

My throat ripped into flames like pulling the cord on a 
hot-air balloon. 

“Oh.” 

“Precisely. So the answer is no. I am purely full of joy, 
because I am missing nothing. No one has more than 
I do now.” 

I was about to inform him of the one exception to his 
statement, but my lips were suddenly very busy. 

When the little pool turned pearl-colored with the 
sunrise, I thought of another question for him. 

“How long does this go on? I mean, Carlisle and 
Esme, Em and Rose, Alice and Jasper 

— they don’t spend all day locked in their rooms. 
They’re out in public, fully clothed, all the time. Does 
this... craving ever let up?” I twisted myself closer into 



541 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




him — quite an accomplishment, actually — to make it 
clear what I was talking about. 

“That’s difficult to say. Everyone is different and, well, 
so far you’re the very most different of all. The average 
young vampire is too obsessed with thirst to notice 
much else for a while. That doesn’t seem to apply to 
you. With the average vampire, though, after that first 
year, other needs make themselves known. Neither 
thirst nor any other desire really ever fades. It’s 
simply a matter of learning to balance them, learning 
to prioritize and manage. ...” 

“How long?” 

He smiled, wrinkling his nose a little. “Rosalie and 
Emmett were the worst. It took a solid decade before I 
could stand to be within a five-mile radius of them. 
Even Carlisle and Esme had a difficult time 
stomaching it. They kicked the happy couple out 
eventually. Esme built them a house, too. It was 
grander than this one, but then, Esme knows what 
Rose likes, and she knows what you like.” 

“So, after ten years, then?” I was pretty sure that 
Rosalie and Emmett had nothing on us, but it might 
sound cocky if I went higher than a decade. 
“Everybody is normal again? 

Like they are now?” 

Edward smiled again. “Well, I’m not sure what you 
mean by normal. You’ve seen my family going about 
life in a fairly human way, but you’ve been sleeping 
nights.” He winked at me. “There’s a tremendous 
amount of time left over when you don’t have to sleep. 



542 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




It makes balancing your... interests quite easy. 
There’s a reason why I’m the best musician in the 
family, why — besides Carlisle — I’ve read the most 
books, studied the most sciences, become fluent in 
the most languages.... Emmett would have you 
believe that I’m such a know-it-all because of the 
mind reading, but the truth is that I’ve just had a lot 
of free time.” 

We laughed together, and the motion of our laughter 
did interesting things to the way our bodies were 
connected, effectively ending that conversation. 



543 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





It was only a little while later that Edward reminded 
me of my priorities. It took him just one word. 

“Renesmee ...” 

I sighed. She would be awake soon. It must be nearly 
seven in the morning. Would she be looking for me? 
Abruptly, something close to panic had my body 
freezing up. What would she look like today? 

Edward felt the total distraction of my stress. “It’s all 
right, love. Get dressed, and we’ll be back to the 
house in two seconds.” 

I probably looked like a cartoon, the way I sprung up, 
then looked back at him — his diamond body faintly 
glinting in the diffuse light — then away to the west, 
where Renesmee waited, then back at him again, then 
back toward her, my head whipping from side to side 
a half dozen times in a second. Edward smiled, but 
didn’t laugh; he was a strong man. 

“It’s all about balance, love. You’re so good at all of 
this, I don’t imagine it will take too long to put 
everything in perspective.” 

“And we have all night, right?” 

He smiled wider. “Do you think I could bear to let you 
get dressed now if that weren’t the case?” 



544 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



That would have to be enough to get me through the 
daylight hours. I would balance this overwhelming, 
devastating desire so that I could be a good — It was 
hard to think the word. Though Renesmee was very 
real and vital in my life, it was still difficult to think of 
myself as a mother. I supposed anyone would feel the 
same, though, without nine months to get used to the 
idea. And with a child that changed by the hour. The 
thought of Renesmee’s speeding life had me stressed- 
out again in an instant. I didn’t even pause at the 
ornately carved double doors to catch my breath 
before finding out what Alice had done. I just burst 
through, intent on wearing the first things I touched. 

I should have known it wouldn’t be that easy. 

“Which ones are mine?” I hissed. As promised, the 
room was bigger than our bedroom. It might have 
been bigger than the rest of the house put together, 
but I’d have to pace it off to be positive. I had a brief 
mental flash of Alice trying to persuade Esme to 
ignore classic proportions and allow this monstrosity. 

I wondered how Alice had won that one. Everything 
was wrapped in garment bags, pristine and white, row 
after row after row. 

“To the best of my knowledge, everything but this 
rack here” — he touched a bar that stretched along the 
half-wall to the left of the door — “is yours.” 

“All of this?” 

He shrugged. 

“Alice,” we said together. He said her name like an 
explanation; I said it like an expletive. 



545 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Fine,” I muttered, and I pulled down the zipper on 
the closest bag. I growled under my breath when I 
saw the floorlength silk gown inside — baby pink. 

Finding something normal to wear could take all day! 

“Let me help,” Edward offered. He sniffed carefully at 
the air and then followed some scent to the back of 
the long room. There was a built-in dresser there. He 
sniffed again, then opened a drawer. With a 
triumphant grin, he held out a pair of artfully faded 
blue jeans. 

I flitted to his side. “How did you do that?” 

“Denim has its own scent just like anything else. 
Now... stretch cotton?” 

He followed his nose to a half-rack, unearthing a 
long-sleeved white t-shirt. He tossed it to me. 

“Thanks,” I said fervently. I inhaled each fabric, 
memorizing the scent for future searches through this 
madhouse. I remembered silk and satin; I would 
avoid those. It only took him seconds to find his own 
clothes — if I hadn’t seen him undressed, I would have 
sworn there was nothing more beautiful than Edward 
in his khakis and pale beige pullover — and then he 
took my hand. We darted through the hidden garden, 
leaped lightly over the stone wall, and hit the forest at 
a dead sprint. I pulled my hand free so that we could 
race back. He beat me this time. 

Renesmee was awake; she was sitting up on the floor 
with Rose and Emmett hovering over her, playing 
with a little pile of twisted silverware. She had a 



546 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




mangled spoon in her right hand. As soon as she 
spied me through the glass, she chucked the spoon 
on the floor — where it left a divot in the wood — and 
pointed in my direction imperiously. Her audience 
laughed; Alice, Jasper, Esme, and Carlisle were 
sitting on the couch, watching her as if she were the 
most engrossing film. 

I was through the door before their laughter had 
barely begun, bounding across the room and scooping 
her up from the floor in the same second. We smiled 
widely at each other. 

She was different, but not so much. A little longer 
again, her proportions drifting from babyish to 
childlike. Her hair was longer by a quarter inch, the 
curls bouncing like springs with every movement. I’d 
let my imagination run wild on the trip back, and I’d 
imagined worse than this. Thanks to my overdone 
fears, these little changes were almost a relief. Even 
without Carlisle’s measurements, I was sure the 
changes were slower than yesterday. 

Renesmee patted my cheek. I winced. She was hungry 
again. 

“How long has she been up?” I asked as Edward 
disappeared through the kitchen doorway. I was sure 
he was on his way to get her breakfast, having seen 
what she’d just thought as clearly as I had. I 
wondered if he would ever have noticed her little 
quirk, if he’d been the only one to know her. To him, 
it probably would have seemed like hearing anyone. 

“Just a few minutes,” Rose said. “We would have 
called you soon. She’s been asking for you — 

547 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




demanding might be a better description. Esme 
sacrificed her second-best silver service to keep the 
little monster entertained.” Rose smiled at Renesmee 
with so much gloating affection that the criticism was 
entirely weightless. “We didn’t want to... er, bother 
you.” 

Rosalie bit her lip and looked away, trying not to 
laugh. I could feel Emmett’s silent laughter behind 
me, sending vibrations through the foundations of the 
house. I kept my chin high. “We’ll get your room set 
up right away,” I said to Renesmee. 

“You’ll like the cottage. It’s magic.” I look up at Esme. 
“Thank you, Esme. So much. It’s absolutely perfect.” 

Before Esme could respond, Emmett was laughing 
again — it wasn’t silent this time. 

“So it’s still standing?” he managed to get out between 
his snickers. “I would’ve thought you two had 
knocked it to rubble by now. What were you doing 
last night? 

Discussing the national debt?” He howled with 
laughter. 

I gritted my teeth and reminded myself of the negative 
consequences when I’d let my temper get away from 
me yesterday. Of course, Emmett wasn’t as breakable 
as Seth. . . . Thinking of Seth made me wonder. 
“Where ’re the wolves today?” I glanced out the 
window wall, but there had been no sign of Leah on 
the way in. 



548 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jacob took off this morning pretty early,” Rosalie told 
me, a little frown creasing her forehead. “Seth 
followed him out.” 

“What was he so upset about?” Edward asked as he 
came back into the room with Renesmee’s cup. There 
must have been more in Rosalie’s memory than I’d 
seen in her expression. 

Without breathing, I handed Renesmee off to Rosalie. 
Super-self-control, maybe, but there was no way I 
was going to be able to feed her. Not yet. 

“I don’t know — or care,” Rosalie grumbled, but she 
answered Edward’s question more fully. “He was 
watching Nessie sleep, his mouth hanging open like 
the moron he is, and then he just jumped to his feet 
without any kind of trigger — that I noticed, anyway — 
and stormed out. I was glad to be rid of him. The 
more time he spends here, the less chance there is 
that we’ll ever get the smell out.” 

“Rose,” Esme chided gently. 

Rosalie flipped her hair. “I suppose it doesn’t matter. 
We won’t be here that much longer.” 

“I still say we should go straight to New Hampshire 
and get things set up,” Emmett said, obviously 
continuing an earlier conversation. “Bella’s already 
registered at Dartmouth. Doesn’t look like it will take 
her all that long to be able to handle school.” 

He turned to look at me with a teasing grin. “I’m sure 
you’ll ace your classes... 



549 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




apparently there’s nothing interesting for you to do at 
night besides study.” 

Rosalie giggled. 

Do not lose your temper, do not lose your temper, I 
chanted to myself. And then I was proud of myself for 
keeping my head. 

So I was pretty surprised that Edward didn’t. 

He growled — an abrupt, shocking rasp of sound — and 
the blackest fury rolled across his expression like 
storm clouds. 

Before any of us could respond, Alice was on her feet. 

“What is he doing? What is that dog doing that has 
erased my schedule for the entire day? I can’t see 
anything! No!” She shot me a tortured glance. “Look 
at you! You need me to show you how to use your 
closet.” 

For one second I was grateful for whatever Jacob was 
up to. 

And then Edward’s hands balled up into fists and he 
snarled, “He talked to Charlie. He thinks Charlie is 
following after him. Coming here. Today.” 

Alice said a word that sounded very odd in her 
trilling, ladylike voice, and then she blurred into 
motion, streaking out the back door. 

“He told Charlie?” I gasped. “But — doesn’t he 
understand? How could he do that?” 



550 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie couldn’t know about me! About vampires! 
That would put him on a hit list that even the Cullens 
couldn’t save him from. “No!” 

Edward spoke through his teeth. “Jacob’s on his way 
in now.” 

It must have started raining farther east. Jacob came 
through the door shaking his wet hair like a dog, 
flipping droplets on the carpet and the couch where 
they made little round gray spots on the white. His 
teeth glinted against his dark lips; his eyes were 
bright and excited. He walked with jerky movements, 
like he was all hyped-up about destroying my father’s 
life. 

“Hey, guys,” he greeted us, grinning. 

It was perfectly silent. 

Leah and Seth slipped in behind him, in their human 
forms — for now; both of their hands were trembling 
with the tension in the room. 

“Rose,” I said, holding my arms out. Wordlessly, 
Rosalie handed me Renesmee. I pressed her close to 
my motionless heart, holding her like a talisman 
against rash behavior. I would keep her in my arms 
until I was sure my decision to kill Jacob was based 
entirely on rational judgment rather than fury. 

She was very still, watching and listening. How much 
did she understand? 

“Charlie’ll be here soon,” Jacob said to me casually. 
“Just a heads-up. I assume Alice is getting you 
sunglasses or something?” 

551 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You assume way too much,” I spit through my teeth. 
“What. Have. You. Done? ” 

Jacob’s smile wavered, but he was still too wound up 
to answer seriously. “Blondie and Emmett woke me 
up this morning going on and on about you all 
moving cross-country. Like I could let you leave. 
Charlie was the biggest issue there, right? Well, 
problem solved.” 

“Do you even realize what you’ve done? The danger 
you’ve put him in?” 

He snorted. “I didn’t put him in danger. Except from 
you. But you’ve got some kind of supernatural self- 
control, right? Not as good as mind reading, if you 
ask me. Much less exciting.” 

Edward moved then, darting across the room to get in 
Jacob’s face. Though he was half a head shorter than 
Jacob, Jacob leaned away from his staggering anger 
as if Edward towered over him. 

“That’s just a theory, mongrel,” he snarled. “You think 
we should test it out on Charlie? 

Did you consider the physical pain you’re putting 
Bella through, even if she can resist? 

Or the emotional pain if she doesn’t? I suppose what 
happens to Bella no longer concerns you!” He spit the 
last word. 

Renesmee pressed her fingers anxiously to my cheek, 
anxiety coloring the replay in her head. 



552 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s words finally cut through Jacob’s strangely 
electric mood. His mouth dropped into a frown. “Bella 
will be in pain?” 

“Like you’ve shoved a white-hot branding iron down 
her throat!” 

I flinched, remembering the scent of pure human 
blood. 

“I didn’t know that,” Jacob whispered. 

“Then perhaps you should have asked first,” Edward 
growled back through his teeth. 

“You would have stopped me.” 

“You should have been stopped — ” 

“This isn’t about me,” I interrupted. I stood very still, 
keeping my hold on Renesmee and sanity. “This is 
about Charlie, Jacob. How could you put him in 
danger this way? 

Do you realize it’s death or vampire life for him now, 
too?” My voice trembled with the tears my eyes could 
no longer shed. 

Jacob was still troubled by Edward’s accusations, but 
mine didn’t seem to bother him. 

“Relax, Bella. I didn’t tell him anything you weren’t 
planning to tell him.” 

“But he’s coming here!” 



553 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, that’s the idea. Wasn’t the whole let him make 
the wrong assumptions’ thing your plan? I think I 
provided a very nice red herring, if I do say so myself.” 

My fingers flexed away from Renesmee. I curled them 
back in securely. “Say it straight, Jacob. I don’t have 
the patience for this.” 

“I didn’t tell him anything about you, Bella. Not really. 
I told him about me. Well, show is probably a better 
verb.” 

“He phased in front of Charlie,” Edward hissed. 

I whispered, “You what?” 

“He’s brave. Brave as you are. Didn’t pass out or 
throw up or anything. I gotta say, I was impressed. 
You should’ve seen his face when I started taking my 
clothes off, though. Priceless,” Jacob chortled. 

“You absolute moron! You could have given him a 
heart attack!” 

“Charlie’s fine. He’s tough. If you’d give this just a 
minute, you 11 see that I did you a favor here.” 

“You have half of that, Jacob.” My voice was flat and 
steely. “You have thirty seconds to tell me every single 
word before I give Renesmee to Rosalie and rip your 
miserable head off. Seth won’t be able to stop me this 
time.” 

“Jeez, Bells. You didn’t used to be so melodramatic. Is 
that a vampire thing?” 

“Twenty-six seconds.” 



554 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob rolled his eyes and flopped into the nearest 
chair. His little pack moved to stand on his flanks, 
not at all relaxed the way he seemed to be; Leah’s 
eyes were on me, her teeth slightly bared. 

“So I knocked on Charlie’s door this morning and 
asked him to come for a walk with me. He was 
confused, but when I told him it was about you and 
that you were back in town, he followed me out to the 
woods. I told him you weren’t sick anymore, and that 
things were a little weird, but good. He was about to 
take off to see you, but I told him I had to show him 
something first. And then I phased.” Jacob shrugged. 
My teeth felt like a vise was pushing them together. “I 
want every word, you monster.” 

“Well, you said I only had thirty seconds — okay, 
okay.” My expression must have convinced him that I 
wasn’t in the mood for teasing. “Lemme see... I 
phased back and got dressed, and then after he 
started breathing again, I said something like, 

‘Charlie, you don’t live in the world you thought you 
lived in. The good news is, nothing has changed — 
except that now you know. Life’ll go on the same way 
it always has. You can go right back to pretending 
that you don’t believe any of this.’ 

“It took him a minute to get his head together, and 
then he wanted to know what was really going on 
with you, with the whole rare-disease thing. I told him 
that you had been sick, but you were fine now — it was 
just that you’d had to change a little bit in the 
process of getting better. He wanted to know what I 
meant by ‘change,’ and I told him that you looked a 
lot more like Esme now than you looked like Renee.” 
555 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward hissed while I stared in horror; this was 
headed in a dangerous direction. 

“After a few minutes, he asked, real quietly, if you 
turned into an animal, too. And I said, ‘She wishes 
she was that cool!’” Jacob chuckled. 

Rosalie made a noise of disgust. 

“I started to tell him more about werewolves, but I 
didn’t even get the whole word out 

— Charlie cut me off and said he’d ‘rather not know 
the specifics.’ Then he asked if you’d known what you 
were getting yourself into when you married Edward, 
and I said, 

‘Sure, she’s known all about this for years, since she 
first came to Forks.’ He didn’t like that very much. I 
let him rant till he got it out of his system. After he 
got calmed down, he just wanted two things. He 
wanted to see you, and I said it would be better if he 
gave me a head start to explain.” 

I inhaled deeply. “What was the other thing he 
wanted?” 

Jacob smiled. “You’ll like this. His main request is 
that he be told as little as possible about all of this. If 
it’s not absolutely essential for him to know 
something, then keep it to yourself. Need to know, 
only.” 

I felt relief for the first time since Jacob had walked 
in. “I can handle that part.” 



556 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Other than that, he’d just like to pretend things are 
normal.” Jacob’s smile turned smug; he must suspect 
that I would be starting to feel the first faint stirrings 
of gratitude about now. 

“What did you tell him about Renesmee?” I struggled 
to maintain the razor edge in my voice, fighting the 
reluctant appreciation. It was premature. There was 
still so much wrong with this situation. Even if 
Jacob’s intervention had brought out a better reaction 
in Charlie than I’d ever hoped for... 

“Oh yeah. So I told him that you and Edward had 
inherited a new little mouth to feed.” 

He glanced at Edward. “She’s your orphaned ward — 
like Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson.” Jacob snorted. 
“I didn’t think you’d mind me lying. That’s all part of 
the game, right?” Edward didn’t respond in any way, 
so Jacob went on. “Charlie was way past being 
shocked at this point, but he did ask if you were 
adopting her. ‘Like a daughter? Like I’m sort of a 
grandfather?’ were his exact words. I told him yes. 

‘Congrats, Gramps,’ and all of that. He even smiled a 
little.” 

The stinging returned to my eyes, but not out of fear 
or anguish this time. Charlie was smiling at the idea 
of being a grandpa? Charlie would meet Renesmee? 

“But she’s changing so fast,” I whispered. 

“I told him that she was more special than all of us 
put together,” Jacob said in a soft voice. He stood and 
walked right up to me, waving Leah and Seth off 



557 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




when they started to follow. Renesmee reached out to 
him, but I hugged her more tightly to me. “I told him, 
Trust me, you don’t want to know about this. But if 
you can ignore all the strange parts, you’re going to 
be amazed. She’s the most wonderful person in the 
whole world.’ 

And then I told him that if he could deal with that, 
you all would stick around for a while and he would 
have a chance to get to know her. But that if it was 
too much for him, you would leave. He said as long as 
no one forced too much information on him, he’d 
deal.” 

Jacob stared at me with half a smile, waiting. 

“I’m not going to say thank you,” I told him. “You’re 
still putting Charlie at a huge risk.” 

“I am sorry about it hurting you. I didn’t know it was 
like that. Bella, things are different with us now, but 
you’ll always be my best friend, and I’ll always love 
you. But I’ll love you the right way now. There’s finally 
a balance. We both have people we can’t live without.” 

He smiled his very most Jacob-y smile. “Still friends?” 

Try as hard as I could to resist, I had to smile back. 
Just a tiny smile. He held out his hand: an offer. 

I took a deep breath and shifted Renesmee ’s weight to 
one arm. I put my left hand in his 

— he didn’t even flinch at the feel of my cool skin. “If I 
don’t kill Charlie tonight, I’ll consider forgiving you for 
this.” 



558 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“When you don’t kill Charlie tonight, you’ll owe me 
huge.” 

I rolled my eyes. 

He held out his other hand toward Renesmee, a 
request this time. “Can I?” 

“I’m actually holding her so that my hands aren’t free 
to kill you, Jacob. Maybe later.” 

He sighed but didn’t push me on it. Wise of him. 

Alice raced back through the door then, her hands 
full and her expression promising violence. 

“You, you, and you,” she snapped, glaring at the 
werewolves. “If you must stay, get over in the corner 
and commit to being there for a while. I need to see. 
Bella, you’d better give him the baby, too. You’ll need 
your arms free, anyway.” 

Jacob grinned in triumph. 

Undiluted fear ripped through my stomach as the 
enormity of what I was about to do hit me. I was going 
to gamble on my iffy self-control with my pure human 
father as the guinea pig. Edward’s earlier words 
crashed in my ears again. 

Did you consider the physical pain you’re putting 
Bella through, even if she can resist? 

Or the emotional pain if she doesn’t? 

I couldn’t imagine the pain of failure. My breathing 
turned to gasps. 



559 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Take her,” I whispered, sliding Renesmee into 
Jacob’s arms. 

He nodded, concern wrinkling his forehead. He 
gestured to the others, and they all went to the far 
corner of the room. Seth and Jake slouched on the 
floor at once, but Leah shook her head and pursed 
her lips. 

“Am I allowed to leave?” she griped. She looked 
uncomfortable in her human body, wearing the same 
dirty t-shirt and cotton shorts she’d worn to shriek at 
me the other day, her short hair sticking up in 
irregular tufts. Her hands were still shaking. 

“Of course,” Jake said. 

“Stay east so you don’t cross Charlie’s path,” Alice 
added. 

Leah didn’t look at Alice; she ducked out the back 
door and stomped into the bushes to phase. 

Edward was back at my side, stroking my face. “You 
can do this. I know you can. I’ll help you; we all will.” 

I met Edward’s eyes with panic screaming from my 
face. Was he strong enough to stop me if I made a 
wrong move? 

“If I didn’t believe you could handle it, we’d disappear 
today. This very minute. But you can. And you’ll be 
happier if you can have Charlie in your life.” 

I tried to slow my breathing. 



560 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice held out her hand. There was a small white box 
on her palm. “These will irritate your eyes — they won’t 
hurt, but theyll cloud your vision. It’s annoying. They 
also won’t match your old color, but it’s still better 
than bright red, right?” 

She flipped the contact box into the air and I caught 
it. 

“When did you—” 

“Before you left on the honeymoon. I was prepared for 
several possible futures.” 

I nodded and opened the container. I’d never worn 
contacts before, but it couldn’t be that hard. I took 
the little brown quarter-sphere and pressed it, 
concave side in, to my eye. 

I blinked, and a film interrupted my sight. I could see 
through it, of course, but I could also see the texture 
of the thin screen. My eye kept focusing on the 
microscopic scratches and warped sections. 

“I see what you mean,” I murmured as I stuck the 
other one in. I tried to not blink this time. My eye 
automatically wanted to dislodge the obstruction. 

“How do I look?” 

Edward smiled. “Gorgeous. Of course — ” 

“Yes, yes, she always looks gorgeous,” Alice finished 
his thought impatiently. “It’s better than red, but 
that’s the highest commendation I can give. Muddy 
brown. Your brown was much prettier. Keep in mind 
that those won’t last forever — the venom in your eyes 



561 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




will dissolve them in a few hours. So if Charlie stays 
longer than that, you 11 have to excuse yourself to 
replace them. Which is a good idea anyway, because 
humans need bathroom breaks.” She shook her head. 
“Esme, give her a few pointers on acting human while 
I stock the powder room with contacts.” 

“How long do I have?” 

“Charlie will be here in five minutes. Keep it simple.” 

Esme nodded once and came to take my hand. “The 
main thing is not to sit too still or move too fast,” she 
told me. 

“Sit down if he does,” Emmett interjected. “Humans 
don’t like to just stand there.” 

“Let your eyes wander every thirty seconds or so,” 
Jasper added. “Humans don’t stare at one thing for 
too long.” 

“Cross your legs for about five minutes, then switch 
to crossing your ankles for the next five,” Rosalie said. 

I nodded once at each suggestion. I’d noticed them 
doing some of these things yesterday. I thought I 
could mimic their actions. 

“And blink at least three times a minute,” Emmett 
said. He frowned, then darted to where the television 
remote sat on the end table. He flipped the TV on to a 
college football game and nodded to himself. 

“Move your hands, too. Brush your hair back or 
pretend to scratch something,” Jasper said. 



562 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I said Esme,” Alice complained as she returned. 
“You’ll overwhelm her.” 

“No, I think I got it all,” I said. “Sit, look around, 
blink, fidget.” 

“Right,” Esme approved. She hugged my shoulders. 

Jasper frowned. “You’ll be holding your breath as 
much as possible, but you need to move your 
shoulders a little to make it look like you’re 
breathing.” 

I inhaled once and then nodded again. 

Edward hugged me on my free side. “You can do this,” 
he repeated, murmuring the encouragement in my 
ear. 

“Two minutes,” Alice said. “Maybe you should start 
out already on the couch. You’ve been sick, after all. 
That way he won’t have to see you move right at first.” 

Alice pulled me to the sofa. I tried to move slowly, to 
make my limbs more clumsy. She rolled her eyes, so I 
must not have been doing a good job. 

“Jacob, I need Renesmee,” I said. 

Jacob frowned, unmoving. 

Alice shook her head. “Bella, that doesn’t help me 
see.” 

“But I need her. She keeps me calm.” The edge of 
panic in my voice was unmistakable. 



563 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Fine,” Alice groaned. “Hold her as still as you can 
and I’ll try to see around her.” She sighed wearily, like 
she’d been asked to work overtime on a holiday. 

Jacob sighed, too, but brought Renesmee to me, and 
then retreated quickly from Alice’s glare. Edward took 
a seat beside me and put his arms around Renesmee 
and me. He leaned forward and looked Renesmee very 
seriously in the eyes. 

“Renesmee, someone special is coming to see you and 
your mother,” he said in a solemn voice, as if he 
expected her to understand every word. Did she? She 
looked back at him with clear, grave eyes. “But he’s 
not like us, or even like Jacob. We have to be very 
careful with him. You shouldn’t tell him things the 
way you tell us.” 

Renesmee touched his face. 

“Exactly,” he said. “And he’s going to make you 
thirsty. But you mustn’t bite him. He won’t heal like 
Jacob.” 

“Can she understand you?” I whispered. 

“She understands. You’ll be careful, won’t you, 
Renesmee? You’ll help us?” 

Renesmee touched him again. 

“No, I don’t care if you bite Jacob. That’s fine.” 

Jacob chuckled. 

“Maybe you should leave, Jacob,” Edward said coldly, 
glaring in his direction. Edward hadn’t forgiven 
Jacob, because he knew that no matter what 



564 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




happened now, I was going to be hurting. But I’d take 
the burn happily if that were the worst thing I’d face 
tonight. 

“I told Charlie I’d be here,” Jacob said. “He needs the 
moral support.” 

“Moral support,” Edward scoffed. “As far as Charlie 
knows, you’re the most repulsive monster of us all.” 

“Repulsive?” Jake protested, and then he laughed 
quietly to himself. I heard the tires turn off the 
highway onto the quiet, damp earth of the Cullens’ 
drive, and my breathing spiked again. My heart ought 
to have been hammering. It made me anxious that my 
body didn’t have the right reactions. 

I concentrated on the steady thrumming of 
Renesmee’s heart to calm myself. It worked pretty 
quickly. 

“Well done, Bella,” Jasper whispered in approval. 
Edward tightened his arm over my shoulders. 

“You’re sure?” I asked him. 

“Positive. You can do anything. ” He smiled and 
kissed me. It wasn’t precisely a peck on the lips, and 
my wild vampiric reactions took me off guard yet 
again. Edward’s lips were like a shot of some 
addictive chemical straight into my nervous system. I 
was instantly craving more. It took all my 
concentration to remember the baby in my arms. 



565 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper felt my mood change. “Er, Edward, you might 
not want to distract her like that right now. She needs 
to be able to focus.” 

Edward pulled away. “Oops,” he said. 

I laughed. That had been my line from the very 
beginning, from the very first kiss. 

“Later,” I said, and anticipation curled my stomach 
into a ball. 

“Focus, Bella,” Jasper urged. 

“Right.” I pushed the trembly feelings away. Charlie, 
that was the main thing now. Keep Charlie safe today. 
We would have all night. . . . 

“Bella.” 

“Sorry, Jasper.” 

Emmett laughed. 

The sound of Charlie’s cruiser got closer and closer. 
The second of levity passed, and everyone was still. I 
crossed my legs and practiced my blinks. 

The car pulled in front of the house and idled for a 
few seconds. I wondered if Charlie was as nervous as 
I was. Then the engine cut off, and a door slammed. 
Three steps across the grass, and then eight echoing 
thuds against the wooden stairs. Four more echoing 
footsteps across the porch. Then silence. Charlie took 
two deep breaths. Knock, knock, knock. 



566 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I inhaled for what might be the last time. Renesmee 
nestled deeper into my arms, hiding her face in my 
hair. 

Carlisle answered the door. His stressed expression 
changed to one of welcome, like switching the channel 
on the TV. 

“Hello, Charlie,” he said, looking appropriately 
abashed. After all, we were supposed to be in Atlanta 
at the Center for Disease Control. Charlie knew he’d 
been lied to. 

“Carlisle,” Charlie greeted him stiffly. “Where’s Bella?” 
“Right here, Dad.” 

Ugh! My voice was so wrong. Plus, I’d used up some 
of my air supply. I gulped in a quick refill, glad that 
Charlie’s scent had not saturated the room yet. 
Charlie’s blank expression told me how off my voice 
was. His eyes zeroed in on me and widened. 

I read the emotions as they scrolled across his face. 

Shock. Disbelief. Pain. Loss. Fear. Anger. Suspicion. 
More pain. I bit my lip. It felt funny. My new teeth 
were sharper against my granite skin than my human 
teeth had been against my soft human lips. 

“Is that you, Bella?” he whispered. 

“Yep.” I winced at my wind-chime voice. “Hi, Dad.” 

He took a deep breath to steady himself. 

“Hey, Charlie,” Jacob greeted him from the corner. 
“How’re things?” 



567 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie glowered at Jacob once, shuddered at a 
memory, and then stared at me again. Slowly, Charlie 
walked across the room until he was a few feet away 
from me. He darted an accusing glare at Edward, and 
then his eyes flickered back to me. The warmth of his 
body heat beat against me with each pulse of his 
heart. 

“Bella?” he asked again. 

I spoke in a lower voice, trying to keep the ring out of 
it. “It’s really me.” 

His jaw locked. 

“I’m sorry, Dad,” I said. 

“Are you okay?” he demanded. 

“Really and truly great,” I promised. “Healthy as a 
horse.” 

That was it for my oxygen. 

“Jake told me this was... necessary. That you were 
dying.” He said the words like he didn’t believe them 
one bit. 

I steeled myself, focused on Renesmee’s warm weight, 
leaned into Edward for support, and took a deep 
breath. 

Charlie’s scent was a fistful of flames, punching 
straight down my throat. But it was so much more 
than pain. It was a hot stabbing of desire, too. Charlie 
smelled more delicious than anything I’d ever 
imagined. As appealing as the anonymous hikers had 



568 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




been on the hunt, Charlie was doubly tempting. And 
he was just a few feet away, leaking mouthwatering 
heat and moisture into the dry air. 

But I wasn’t hunting now. And this was my father. 

Edward squeezed my shoulders sympathetically, and 
Jacob shot an apologetic glance at me across the 
room. 

I tried to collect myself and ignore the pain and 
longing of the thirst. Charlie was waiting for my 
answer. 

“Jacob was telling you the truth.” 

“That makes one of you,” Charlie growled. 

I hoped Charlie could see past the changes in my new 
face to read the remorse there. Under my hair, 
Renesmee sniffed as Charlie’s scent registered with 
her, too. I tightened my grip on her. 

Charlie saw my anxious glance down and followed it. 
“Oh,” he said, and all the anger fell off his face, 
leaving only shock behind. “This is her. The orphan 
Jacob said you’re adopting.” 

“My niece,” Edward lied smoothly. He must have 
decided that the resemblance between Renesmee and 
him was too pronounced to be ignored. Best to claim 
they were related from the beginning. 

“I thought you’d lost your family,” Charlie said, 
accusation returning to his voice. 



569 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I lost my parents. My older brother was adopted, like 
me. I never saw him after that. But the courts located 
me when he and his wife died in a car accident, 
leaving their only child without any other family.” 

Edward was so good at this. His voice was even, with 
just the right amount of innocence. I needed practice 
so that I could do that. 

Renesmee peeked out from under my hair, sniffing 
again. She glanced shyly at Charlie from under her 
long lashes, then hid again. 

“She’s... she’s, well, she’s a beauty.” 

“Yes,” Edward agreed. 

“Kind of a big responsibility, though. You two are just 
getting started.” 

“What else could we do?” Edward brushed his fingers 
lightly over her cheek. I saw him touch her lips for 
just a moment — a reminder. “Would you have refused 
her?” 

“Hmph. Well.” He shook his head absently. “Jake says 
you call her Nessie?” 

“No, we don’t,” I said, my voice too sharp and 
piercing. “Her name is Renesmee.” 

Charlie refocused on me. “How do you feel about this? 
Maybe Carlisle and Esme could 



“She’s mine,” I interrupted. “I want her.” 



570 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie frowned. “You gonna make me a grandpa so 
young?” 

Edward smiled. “Carlisle is a grandfather, too.” 

Charlie shot an incredulous glance at Carlisle, still 
standing by the front door; he looked like Zeus’s 
younger, better-looking brother. 

Charlie snorted and then laughed. “I guess that does 
sort of make me feel better.” His eyes strayed back to 
Renesmee. “She sure is something to look at.” His 
warm breath blew lightly across the space between 
us. 



Renesmee leaned toward the smell, shaking off my 
hair and looking him full in the face for the first time. 
Charlie gasped. 

I knew what he was seeing. My eyes — his eyes — 
copied exactly into her perfect face. Charlie started 
hyperventilating. His lips trembled, and I could read 
the numbers he mouthed. He was counting 
backward, trying to fit nine months into one. Trying 
to put it together but not able to force the evidence 
right in front of him to make any sense. Jacob got up 
and came over to pat Charlie on the back. He leaned 
in to whisper something in Charlie’s ear; only Charlie 
didn’t know we could all hear. 

“Need to know, Charlie. It’s okay. I promise.” 

Charlie swallowed and nodded. And then his eyes 
blazed as he took a step closer to Edward with his 
fists tightly clenched. 



571 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t want to know everything, but I’m done with 
the lies!” 

“I’m sorry,” Edward said calmly, “but you need to 
know the public story more than you need to know 
the truth. If you’re going to be part of this secret, the 
public story is the one that counts. It’s to protect 
Bella and Renesmee as well as the rest of us. Can you 
go along with the lies for them?” 

The room was full of statues. I crossed my ankles. 

Charlie huffed once and then turned his glare on me. 
“You might’ve given me some warning, kid.” 

“Would it really have made this any easier?” 

He frowned, and then he knelt on the floor in front of 
me. I could see the movement of the blood in his neck 
under his skin. I could feel the warm vibration of it. 

So could Renesmee. She smiled and reached one pink 
palm out to him. I held her back. She pushed her 
other hand against my neck, thirst, curiosity, and 
Charlie’s face in her thoughts. There was a subtle 
edge to the message that made me think that she’d 
understood Edward’s words perfectly; she 
acknowledged thirst, but overrode it in the same 
thought. 

“Whoa,” Charlie gasped, his eyes on her perfect teeth. 
“How old is she?” 

“Urn ...” 

“Three months,” Edward said, and then added slowly, 
“rather, she’s the size of a threemonth-old, more or 



572 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




less. She’s younger in some ways, more mature in 
others.” 

Very deliberately, Renesmee waved at him. 

Charlie blinked spastically. 

Jacob elbowed him. “Told you she was special, didn’t 
I?” 

Charlie cringed away from the contact. 

“Oh, c’mon, Charlie,” Jacob groaned. “I’m the same 
person I’ve always been. Just pretend this afternoon 
didn’t happen.” 

The reminder made Charlie’s lips go white, but he 
nodded once. “Just what is your part in all this, 
Jake?” he asked. “How much does Billy know? Why 
are you here?” He looked at Jacob’s face, which was 
glowing as he stared at Renesmee. 

“Well, I could tell you all about it — Billy knows 
absolutely everything — but it involves a lot of stuff 
about werewo — ” 

“Ungh!” Charlie protested, covering his ears. “Never 
mind.” 

Jacob grinned. “Everything’s going to be great, 
Charlie. Just try to not believe anything you see.” 

My dad mumbled something unintelligible. 

“Woo!” Emmett suddenly boomed in his deep bass. 
“Go Gators!” 

Jacob and Charlie jumped. The rest of us froze. 



573 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie recovered, then looked at Emmett over his 
shoulder. “Florida winning?” 

“Just scored the first touchdown,” Emmett confirmed. 
He shot a look in my direction, wagging his eyebrows 
like a villain in vaudeville. “’Bout time somebody 
scored around here.” 

I fought back a hiss. In front of Charlie? That was 
over the line. But Charlie was beyond noticing 
innuendos. He took yet another deep breath, sucking 
the air in like he was trying to pull it down to his toes. 
I envied him. He lurched to his feet, stepped around 
Jacob, and half-fell into an open chair. “Well,” he 
sighed, “I guess we should see if they can hold on to 
the lead.” 



574 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




SHINY 



“I don’t know how much we should tell Renee about 
this,” Charlie said, hesitating with one foot out the 
door. He stretched, and then his stomach growled. I 
nodded. “I know. I don’t want to freak her out. Better 
to protect her. This stuff isn’t for the fainthearted.” 

His lips twisted up to the side ruefully. “I would have 
tried to protect you, too, if I’d known how. But I guess 
you’ve never fit into the fainthearted category, have 
you?” 

I smiled back, pulling a blazing breath in through my 
teeth. 

Charlie patted his stomach absently. “I’ll think of 
something. We’ve got time to discuss this, right?” 

“Right,” I promised him. 

It had been a long day in some ways, and so short in 
others. Charlie was late for dinner 

— Sue Clearwater was cooking for him and Billy. That 
was going to be an awkward evening, but at least he’d 
be eating real food; I was glad someone was trying to 
keep him from starving due to his lack of cooking 
ability. 

All day the tension had made the minutes pass 
slowly; Charlie had never relaxed the stiff set of his 
shoulders. But he’d been in no hurry to leave, either. 
He’d watched two whole games — thankfully so 



575 I P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



absorbed in his thoughts that he was totally oblivious 
to Emmett’s suggestive jokes that got more pointed 
and less football-related with each aside — and the 
after-game commentaries, and then the news, not 
moving until Seth had reminded him of the time. 

“You gonna stand Billy and my mom up, Charlie? 
C’mon. Bella and Nessie’ll be here tomorrow. Let’s get 
some grub, eh?” 

It had been clear in Charlie’s eyes that he hadn’t 
trusted Seth’s assessment, but he’d let Seth lead the 
way out. The doubt was still there as he paused now. 
The clouds were thinning, the rain gone. The sun 
might even make an appearance just in time to set. 

“Jake says you guys were going to take off on me,” he 
muttered to me now. 

“I didn’t want to do that if there was any way at all 
around it. That’s why we’re still here.” 

“He said you could stay for a while, but only if I’m 
tough enough, and if I can keep my mouth shut.” 

“Yes... but I can’t promise that we’ll never leave, Dad. 
It’s pretty complicated. ...” 

“Need to know,” he reminded me. 

“Right.” 

“You’ll visit, though, if you have to go?” 

“I promise, Dad. Now that you know just enough, I 
think this can work. I’ll keep as close as you want.” 



576 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He chewed on his lip for half a second, then leaned 
slowly toward me with his arms cautiously extended. 

I shifted Renesmee — napping now — to my left arm, 
locked my teeth, held my breath, and wrapped my 
right arm very lightly around his warm, soft waist. 

“Keep real close, Bells,” he mumbled. “Real close.” 

“Love you, Dad,” I whispered through my teeth. 

He shivered and pulled away. I dropped my arm. 

“Love you, too, kid. Whatever else has changed, that 
hasn’t.” He touched one finger to Renesmee’s pink 
cheek. “She sure looks a lot like you.” 

I kept my expression casual, though I felt anything 
but. “More like Edward, I think.” I hesitated, and then 
added, “She has your curls.” 

Charlie started, then snorted. “Huh. Guess she does. 
Huh. Grandpa.” He shook his head doubtfully. “Do I 
ever get to hold her?” 

I blinked in shock and then composed myself. After 
considering for a half second and judging Renesmee’s 
appearance — she looked completely out — I decided 
that I might as well push my luck to the limit, since 
things were going so well today. . . . 

“Here,” I said, holding her out to him. He 
automatically made an awkward cradle with his arms, 
and I tucked Renesmee into it. His skin wasn’t quite 
as hot as hers, but it made my throat tickle to feel the 
warmth flowing under the thin membrane. Where my 
white skin brushed him it left goose bumps. I wasn’t 



577 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




sure if this was a reaction to my new temperature or 
totally psychological. 

Charlie grunted quietly as he felt her weight. “She’s... 
sturdy.” 

I frowned. She felt feather-light to me. Maybe my 
measure was off. 

“Sturdy is good,” Charlie said, seeing my expression. 
Then he muttered to himself, 

“She’ll need to be tough, surrounded by all this 
craziness.” He bounced his arms gently, swaying a 
little from side to side. “Prettiest baby I ever saw, 
including you, kid. Sorry, but it’s true.” 

“I know it is.” 

“Pretty baby,” he said again, but it was closer to a coo 
this time. I could see it in his face — I could watch it 
growing there. Charlie was just as helpless against 
her magic as the rest of us. Two seconds in his arms, 
and already she owned him. 

“Can I come back tomorrow?” 

“Sure, Dad. Of course. We’ll be here.” 

“You’d better be,” he said sternly, but his face was 
soft, still gazing at Renesmee. “See you tomorrow, 
Nessie.” 

“Not you, too!” 

“Huh?” 



578 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Her name is Renesmee. Like Renee and Esme, put 
together. No variations.” I struggled to calm myself 
without the deep breath this time. “Do you want to 
hear her middle name?” 

“Sure.” 

“Carlie. With a C. Like Carlisle and Charlie put 
together.” 

Charlie’s eye-creasing grin lit up his face, taking me 
off guard. “Thanks, Bells.” 

“Thank you, Dad. So much has changed so quickly. 
My head hasn’t stopped spinning. If I didn’t have you 
now, I don’t know how I’d keep my grip on — on 
reality.” I’d been about to say my grip on who I was. 
That was probably more than he needed. Charlie’s 
stomach growled. 

“Go eat, Dad. We will be here.” I remembered how it 
felt, that first uncomfortable immersion in fantasy — 
the sensation that everything would disappear in the 
light of the rising sun. 

Charlie nodded and then reluctantly returned 
Renesmee to me. He glanced past me into the house; 
his eyes were a little wild for a minute as he stared 
around the big bright room. Everyone was still there, 
besides Jacob, who I could hear raiding the 
refrigerator in the kitchen; Alice was lounging on the 
bottom step of the staircase with Jasper’s head in her 
lap; Carlisle had his head bent over a fat book in his 
lap; Esme was humming to herself, sketching on a 
notepad, while Rosalie and Emmett laid out the 
foundation for a monumental house of cards under 



579 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the stairs; Edward had drifted to his piano and was 
playing very softly to himself. There was no evidence 
that the day was coming to a close, that it might be 
time to eat or shift activities in preparation for 
evening. Something intangible had changed in the 
atmosphere. The Cullens weren’t trying as hard as 
they usually did — the human charade had slipped 
ever so slightly, enough for Charlie to feel the 
difference. 

He shuddered, shook his head, and sighed. “See you 
tomorrow, Bella.” He frowned and then added, “I 
mean, it’s not like you don’t look... good. I’ll get used 
to it.” 

“Thanks, Dad.” 

Charlie nodded and walked thoughtfully toward his 
car. I watched him drive away; it wasn’t until I heard 
his tires hit the freeway that I realized I’d done it. I’d 
actually made it through the whole day without 
hurting Charlie. All by myself. I must have a 
superpower! 

It seemed too good to be true. Could I really have both 
my new family and some of my old as well? And I’d 
thought that yesterday had been perfect. 

“Wow,” I whispered. I blinked and felt the third set of 
contact lenses disintegrate. The sound of the piano 
cut off, and Edward’s arms were around my waist, his 
chin resting on my shoulder. 

“You took the word right out of my mouth.” 

“Edward, I did it!” 



580 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You did. You were unbelievable. All that worrying 
over being a newborn, and then you skip it 
altogether.” He laughed quietly. 

“I’m not even sure she’s really a vampire, let alone a 
newborn,” Emmett called from under the stairs. 

“She’s too tame.” 

All the embarrassing comments he’d made in front of 
my father sounded in my ears again, and it was 
probably a good thing I was holding Renesmee. 

Unable to help my reaction entirely, I snarled under 
my breath. 

“Oooo, scary,” Emmett laughed. 

I hissed, and Renesmee stirred in my arms. She 
blinked a few times, then looked around, her 
expression confused. She sniffed, then reached for my 
face. 

“Charlie will be back tomorrow,” I assured her. 

“Excellent,” Emmett said. Rosalie laughed with him 
this time. 

“Not brilliant, Emmett,” Edward said scornfully, 
holding out his hands to take Renesmee from me. He 
winked when I hesitated, and so, a little confused, I 
gave her to him. 

“What do you mean?” Emmett demanded. 

“It’s a little dense, don’t you think, to antagonize the 
strongest vampire in the house?” 

Emmett threw his head back and snorted. “Please!” 



581 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella,” Edward murmured to me while Emmett 
listened closely, “do you remember a few months ago, 
I asked you to do me a favor once you were 
immortal?” 

That rang a dim bell. I sifted through the blurry 
human conversations. After a moment, I remembered 
and I gasped, “Oh!” 

Alice trilled a long, pealing laugh. Jacob poked his 
head around the corner, his mouth stuffed with food. 

“What?” Emmett growled. 

“Really?” I asked Edward. 

“Trust me,” he said. 

I took a deep breath. “Emmett, how do you feel about 
a little bet?” 

He was on his feet at once. “Awesome. Bring it.” 

I bit my lip for a second. He was just so huge. 

“Unless you’re too afraid... ?” Emmett suggested. 

I squared my shoulders. “You. Me. Arm-wrestling. 
Dining room table. Now.” 

Emmett’s grin stretched across his face. 

“Er, Bella,” Alice said quickly, “I think Esme is fairly 
fond of that table. It’s an antique.” 

“Thanks,” Esme mouthed at her. 

“No problem,” Emmett said with a gleaming smile. 
“Right this way, Bella.” 



582 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I followed him out the back, toward the garage; I 
could hear all the others trailing behind. There was a 
largish granite boulder standing up out of a tumble of 
rocks near the river, obviously Emmett’s goal. Though 
the big rock was a little rounded and irregular, it 
would do the job. 

Emmett placed his elbow on the rock and waved me 
forward. 

I was nervous again as I watched the thick muscles in 
Emmett’s arm roll, but I kept my face smooth. 

Edward had promised I would be stronger than 
anyone for a while. He seemed very confident about 
this, and I felt strong. That strong? I wondered, 
looking at Emmett’s biceps. I wasn’t even two days 
old, though, and that ought to count for something. 
Unless nothing was normal about me. Maybe I wasn’t 
as strong as a normal newborn. Maybe that’s why 
control was so easy for me. 

I tried to look unconcerned as I set my elbow against 
the stone. 

“Okay, Emmett. I win, and you cannot say one more 
word about my sex life to anyone, not even Rose. No 
allusions, no innuendos — no nothing.” 

His eyes narrowed. “Deal. I win, and it’s going to get a 
lot worse.” 

He heard my breath stop and grinned evilly. There 
was no hint of bluff in his eyes. 

“You gonna back down so easy, little sister?” Emmett 
taunted. “Not much wild about you, is there? I bet 



583 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




that cottage doesn’t have a scratch.” He laughed. “Did 
Edward tell you how many houses Rose and I 
smashed?” 

I gritted my teeth and grabbed his big hand. “One, 
two—” 

“Three,” he grunted, and shoved against my hand. 
Nothing happened. 

Oh, I could feel the force he was exerting. My new 
mind seemed pretty good at all kinds of calculations, 
and so I could tell that if he wasn’t meeting any 
resistance, his hand would have pounded right 
through the rock without difficulty. The pressure 
increased, and I wondered randomly if a cement truck 
doing forty miles an hour down a sharp decline would 
have similar power. Fifty miles an hour? Sixty? 
Probably more. It wasn’t enough to move me. His 
hand shoved against mine with crushing force, but it 
wasn’t unpleasant. It felt kind of good in a weird way. 
I’d been so very careful since the last time I woke up, 
trying so hard not to break things. It was a strange 
relief to use my muscles. To let the strength flow 
rather than struggling to restrain it. Emmett grunted; 
his forehead creased and his whole body strained in 
one rigid line toward the obstacle of my unmoving 
hand. I let him sweat — figuratively — for a moment 
while I enjoyed the sensation of the crazy force 
running through my arm. A few seconds, though, and 
I was a little bored with it. I flexed; Emmett lost an 
inch. I laughed. Emmett snarled harshly through his 
teeth. 



584 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Just keep your mouth shut,” I reminded him, and 
then I smashed his hand into the boulder. A 
deafening crack echoed off the trees. The rock 
shuddered, and a piece — 

about an eighth of the mass — broke off at an invisible 
fault line and crashed to the ground. It fell on 
Emmett’s foot, and I snickered. I could hear Jacob’s 
and Edward’s muffled laughter. 

Emmett kicked the rock fragment across the river. It 
sliced a young maple in half before thudding into the 
base of a big fir, which swayed and then fell into 
another tree. 

“Rematch. Tomorrow.” 

“It’s not going to wear off that fast,” I told him. “Maybe 
you ought to give it a month.” 

Emmett growled, flashing his teeth. “Tomorrow.” 

“Hey, whatever makes you happy, big brother.” 

As he turned to stalk away, Emmett punched the 
granite, shattering off an avalanche of shards and 
powder. It was kind of neat, in a childish way. 

Fascinated by the undeniable proof that I was 
stronger than the strongest vampire I’d ever known, I 
placed my hand, fingers spread wide, against the 
rock. Then I dug my fingers slowly into the stone, 
crushing rather than digging; the consistency 
reminded me of hard cheese. I ended up with a 
handful of gravel. 

“Cool,” I mumbled. 



585 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




With a grin stretching my face, I whirled in a sudden 
circle and karate-chopped the rock with the side of 
my hand. The stone shrieked and groaned and — with 
a big poof of dust 

— split in two. 

I started giggling. 

I didn’t pay much attention to the chuckles behind 
me while I punched and kicked the rest of the boulder 
into fragments. I was having too much fun, snickering 
away the whole time. It wasn’t until I heard a new 
little giggle, a high-pitched peal of bells, that I turned 
away from my silly game. 

“Did she just laugh?” 

Everyone was staring at Renesmee with the same 
dumbstruck expression that must have been on my 
face. 

“Yes,” Edward said. 

“Who wasn’t laughing?” Jake muttered, rolling his 
eyes. 

“Tell me you didn’t let go a bit on your first run, dog,” 
Edward teased, no antagonism in his voice at all. 

“That’s different,” Jacob said, and I watched in 
surprise as he mock-punched Edward’s shoulder. 
“Bella’s supposed to be a grown-up. Married and a 
mom and all that. Shouldn’t there be more dignity?” 

Renesmee frowned, and touched Edward’s face. 

“What does she want?” I asked. 



586 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Less dignity,” Edward said with a grin. “She was 
having almost as much fun watching you enjoy 
yourself as I was.” 

“Am I funny?” I asked Renesmee, darting back and 
reaching for her at the same time that she reached for 
me. I took her out of Edward’s arms and offered her 
the shard of rock in my hand. “You want to try?” 

She smiled her glittering smile and took the stone in 
both hands. She squeezed, a little dent forming 
between her eyebrows as she concentrated. 

There was a tiny grinding sound, and a bit of dust. 

She frowned, and held the chunk up to me. 

“I’ll get it,” I said, pinching the stone into sand. 

She clapped and laughed; the delicious sound of it 
made us all join in. The sun suddenly burst through 
the clouds, shooting long beams of ruby and gold 
across the ten of us, and I was immediately lost in the 
beauty of my skin in the light of the sunset. Dazed by 
it. 

Renesmee stroked the smooth diamond-bright facets, 
then laid her arm next to mine. Her skin had just a 
faint luminosity, subtle and mysterious. Nothing that 
would keep her inside on a sunny day like my glowing 
sparkle. She touched my face, thinking of the 
difference and feeling disgruntled. 

“You’re the prettiest,” I assured her. 

“I’m not sure I can agree to that,” Edward said, and 
when I turned to answer him, the sunlight on his face 
stunned me into silence. 

587 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob had his hand in front of his face, pretending to 
shield his eyes from the glare. 

“Freaky Bella,” he commented. 

“What an amazing creature she is,” Edward 
murmured, almost in agreement, as if Jacob’s 
comment was meant as a compliment. He was both 
dazzling and dazzled. It was a strange feeling — not 
surprising, I supposed, since everything felt strange 
now — 

this being a natural at something. As a human, I’d 
never been best at anything. I was okay at dealing 
with Renee, but probably lots of people could have 
done better; Phil seemed to be holding his own. I was 
a good student, but never the top of the class. 
Obviously, I could be counted out of anything 
athletic. Not artistic or musical, no particular talents 
to brag of. Nobody ever gave away a trophy for reading 
books. After eighteen years of mediocrity, I was pretty 
used to being average. I realized now that I’d long ago 
given up any aspirations of shining at anything. I just 
did the best with what I had, never quite fitting into 
my world. 

So this was really different. I was amazing now — to 
them and to myself. It was like I had been born to be 
a vampire. The idea made me want to laugh, but it 
also made me want to sing. I had found my true place 
in the world, the place I fit, the place I shined. 



588 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




TRAVEL PLANS 




I took mythology a lot more seriously since I’d become 
a vampire. Often, when I looked back over my first 
three months as an immortal, I imagined how the 
thread of my life might look in the Fates’ loom — who 
knew but that it actually existed? I was sure my 
thread must have changed color; I thought it had 
probably started out as a nice beige, something 
supportive and non-confrontational, something that 
would look good in the background. Now it felt like it 
must be bright crimson, or maybe glistening gold. 

The tapestry of family and friends that wove together 
around me was a beautiful, glowing thing, full of their 
bright, complementary colors. 

I was surprised by some of the threads I got to 
include in my life. The werewolves, with their deep, 
woodsy colors, were not something I’d expected; 
Jacob, of course, and Seth, too. But my old friends 
Quil and Embry became part of the fabric as they 
joined Jacob’s pack, and even Sam and Emily were 
cordial. The tensions between our families eased, 
mostly due to Renesmee. She was easy to love. 

Sue and Leah Clearwater were interlaced into our life, 
too — two more I had not anticipated. 

Sue seemed to have taken it on herself to smooth 
Charlie’s transition into the world of make-believe. 

She came with him to the Cullens’ most days, though 
she never seemed truly comfortable here the way her 



589 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



son and most of Jake’s pack did. She did not speak 
often; she just hovered protectively near Charlie. She 
was always the first person he looked to when 
Renesmee did something disturbingly advanced — 
which was often. In answer, Sue would eye Seth 
meaningfully as if to say, Yeah, tell me about it. Leah 
was even less comfortable than Sue and was the only 
part of our recently extended family who was openly 
hostile to the merger. However, she and Jacob had a 
new camaraderie that kept her close to us all. I asked 
him about it once — hesitantly; I didn’t want to pry, 
but the relationship was so different from the way it 
used to be that it made me curious. He shrugged and 
told me it was a pack thing. She was his second- 
incommand now, his “beta,” as I’d called it once long 
ago. 

“I figured as long as I was going to do this Alpha thing 
for real,” Jacob explained, “I’d better nail down the 
formalities.” 

The new responsibility made Leah feel the need to 
check in with him often, and since he was always 
with Renesmee... 

Leah was not happy to be near us, but she was the 
exception. Happiness was the main component in my 
life now, the dominant pattern in the tapestry. So 
much so that my relationship with Jasper was now 
much closer than I’d ever dreamed it would be. At 
first I was really annoyed, though. 

“Yeesh!” I complained to Edward one night after we’d 
put Renesmee in her wroughtiron crib. “If I haven’t 
killed Charlie or Sue yet, it’s probably not going to 



590 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




happen. I wish Jasper would stop hovering all the 
time!” 

“No one doubts you, Bella, not in the slightest,” he 
assured me. “You know how Jasper is — he can’t resist 
a good emotional climate. You’re so happy all the 
time, love, he gravitates toward you without 
thinking.” 

And then Edward hugged me tightly, because nothing 
pleased him more than my overwhelming ecstasy in 
this new life. 

And I was euphoric the vast majority of the time. The 
days were not long enough for me to get my fill of 
adoring my daughter; the nights did not have enough 
hours to satisfy my need for Edward. 

There was a flipside to the joy, though. If you turned 
the fabric of our lives over, I imagined the design on 
the backside would be woven in the bleak grays of 
doubt and fear. 

Renesmee spoke her first word when she was exactly 
one week old. The word was Momma, which would 
have made my day, except that I was so frightened by 
her progress I could barely force my frozen face to 
smile back at her. It didn’t help that she continued 
from her first word to her first sentence in the same 
breath. “Momma, where is Grandpa?” she’d asked in 
a clear, high soprano, only bothering to speak aloud 
because I was across the room from her. She’d 
already asked Rosalie, using her normal (or seriously 
abnormal, from another point of view) means of 
communication. Rosalie hadn’t known the answer, so 
Renesmee had turned to me. 

591 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




When she walked for the first time, fewer than three 
weeks later, it was similar. She’d simply stared at 
Alice for a long moment, watching intently as her 
aunt arranged bouquets in the vases scattered 
around the room, dancing back and forth across the 
floor with her arms full of flowers. Renesmee got to 
her feet, not in the least bit shaky, and crossed the 
floor almost as gracefully. 

Jacob had burst into applause, because that was 
clearly the response Renesmee wanted. The way he 
was tied to her made his own reactions secondary; his 
first reflex was always to give Renesmee whatever she 
needed. But our eyes met, and I saw all the panic in 
mine echoed in his. I made my hands clap together, 
too, trying to hide my fear from her. Edward 
applauded quietly at my side, and we didn’t need to 
speak our thoughts to know they were the same. 

Edward and Carlisle threw themselves into research, 
looking for any answers, anything to expect. There 
was very little to be found, and none of it verifiable. 
Alice and Rosalie usually began our day with a 
fashion show. Renesmee never wore the same clothes 
twice, partly because she outgrew her clothes almost 
immediately and partly because Alice and Rosalie 
were trying to create a baby album that appeared to 
span years rather than weeks. They took thousands 
of pictures, documenting every phase of her 
accelerated childhood. 

At three months, Renesmee could have been a big 
one-year-old, or a small two-yearold. She wasn’t 
shaped exactly like a toddler; she was leaner and 
more graceful, her proportions were more even, like 

592 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




an adult’s. Her bronze ringlets hung to her waist; I 
couldn’t bear to cut them, even if Alice would have 
allowed it. Renesmee could speak with flawless 
grammar and articulation, but she rarely bothered, 
preferring to simply show people what she wanted. 
She could not only walk but run and dance. She 
could even read. 

I’d been reading Tennyson to her one night, because 
the flow and rhythm of his poetry seemed restful. (I 
had to search constantly for new material; Renesmee 
didn’t like repetition in her bedtime stories as other 
children supposedly did, and she had no patience for 
picture books.) She reached up to touch my cheek, 
the image in her mind one of us, only with her 
holding the book. I gave it to her, smiling. 

“ There is sweet music here,”’ she read without 
hesitation, “‘that softer falls than petals from blown 
roses on the grass, or night-dews on still waters 
between walls of shadowy granite, in a gleaming 
pass — ’ ” 

My hand was robotic as I took the book back. 

“If you read, how will you fall asleep?” I asked in a 
voice that had barely escaped shaking. 

By Carlisle’s calculations, the growth of her body was 
gradually slowing; her mind continued to race on 
ahead. Even if the rate of decrease held steady, she’d 
still be an adult in no more than four years. 

Four years. And an old woman by fifteen. 

Just fifteen years of life. 



593 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




But she was so healthy. Vital, bright, glowing, and 
happy. Her conspicuous well-being made it easy for 
me to be happy with her in the moment and leave the 
future for tomorrow. 

Carlisle and Edward discussed our options for the 
future from every angle in low voices that I tried not 
to hear. They never had these discussions when 
Jacob was around, because there was one sure way 
to halt aging, and that wasn’t something Jacob was 
likely to be excited about. I wasn’t. Too dangerous! my 
instincts screamed at me. Jacob and Renesmee 
seemed alike in so many ways, both half-and-half 
beings, two things at the same time. And all the 
werewolf lore insisted that vampire venom was a 
death sentence rather than a course to immortality. . 



Carlisle and Edward had exhausted the research they 
could do from a distance, and now we were preparing 
to follow old legends at their source. We were going 
back to Brazil, starting there. The Ticunas had 
legends about children like Renesmee.... If other 
children like her had ever existed, perhaps some tale 
of the life span of half-mortal children still lingered. . . 



The only real question left was exactly when we would 
g°- 

I was the holdup. A small part of it was that I wanted 
to stay near Forks until after the holidays, for 
Charlie’s sake. But more than that, there was a 
different journey that I knew had to come first — that 
was the clear priority. Also, it had to be a solo trip. 



594 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




This was the only argument that Edward and I had 
gotten in since I’d become a vampire. The main point 
of contention was the “solo” part. But the facts were 
what they were, and my plan was the only one that 
made rational sense. I had to go see the Volturi, and I 
had to do it absolutely alone. 

Even freed from old nightmares, from any dreams at 
all, it was impossible to forget the Volturi. Nor did 
they leave us without reminders. 

Until the day that Aro’s present showed up, I didn’t 
know that Alice had sent a wedding announcement to 
the Volturi leaders; we’d been far away on Esme’s 
island when she’d seen a vision of Volturi soldiers — 
Jane and Alec, the devastatingly powerful twins, 
among them. Caius was planning to send a hunting 
party to see if I was still human, against their edict 
(because I knew about the secret vampire world, I 
either must join it or be silenced... permanently). So 
Alice had mailed the announcement, seeing that this 
would delay them as they deciphered the meaning 
behind it. But they would come eventually. That was 
certain. 

The present itself was not overtly threatening. 
Extravagant, yes, almost frightening in that very 
extravagance. The threat was in the parting line of 
Aro’s congratulatory note, written in black ink on a 
square of heavy, plain white paper in Aro’s own hand: 
I so look forward to seeing the new Mrs. Cullen in 
person. 

The gift was presented in an ornately carved, ancient 
wooden box inlaid with gold and mother-of-pearl, 



595 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




ornamented with a rainbow of gemstones. Alice said 
the box itself was a priceless treasure, that it would 
have outshone just about any piece of jewelry besides 
the one inside it. 

“I always wondered where the crown jewels 
disappeared to after John of England pawned them in 
the thirteenth century,” Carlisle said. “I suppose it 
doesn’t surprise me that the Volturi have their share.” 

The necklace was simple — gold woven into a thick 
rope of a chain, almost scaled, like a smooth snake 
that would curl close around the throat. One jewel 
hung suspended from the rope: a white diamond the 
size of a golf ball. 

The unsubtle reminder in Aro’s note interested me 
more than the jewel. The Volturi needed to see that I 
was immortal, that the Cullens had been obedient to 
the Volturi’s orders, and they needed to see this soon. 
They could not be allowed near Forks. There was only 
one way to keep our life here safe. 

“You’re not going alone,” Edward had insisted 
through his teeth, his hands clenching into fists. 

“They won’t hurt me,” I’d said as soothingly as I could 
manage, forcing my voice to sound sure. “They have 
no reason to. I’m a vampire. Case closed.” 

“No. Absolutely no.” 

“Edward, it’s the only way to protect her.” 

And he hadn’t been able to argue with that. My logic 
was watertight. Even in the short time I’d known Aro, 
I’d been able to see that he was a collector — and his 



596 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




most prized treasures were his living pieces. He 
coveted beauty, talent, and rarity in his immortal 
followers more than any jewel locked in his vaults. It 
was unfortunate enough that he’d begun to covet 
Alice’s and Edward’s abilities. I would give him no 
more reason to be jealous of Carlisle’s family. 
Renesmee was beautiful and gifted and unique — she 
was one of a kind. He could not be allowed to see her, 
not even through someone’s thoughts. 

And I was the only one whose thoughts he could not 
hear. Of course I would go alone. Alice did not see any 
trouble with my trip, but she was worried by the 
indistinct quality of her visions. She said they were 
sometimes similarly hazy when there were outside 
decisions that might conflict but that had not been 
solidly resolved. This uncertainty made Edward, 
already hesitant, extremely opposed to what I had to 
do. He wanted to come with me as far as my 
connection in London, but I wouldn’t leave Renesmee 
without both her parents. Carlisle was coming 
instead. It made both Edward and me a little more 
relaxed, knowing that Carlisle would be only a few 
hours away from me. Alice kept searching for the 
future, but the things she found were unrelated to 
what she was looking for. A new trend in the stock 
market; a possible visit of reconciliation from Irina, 
though her decision was not firm; a snowstorm that 
wouldn’t hit for another six weeks; a call from Renee 
(I was practicing my “rough” voice, and getting better 
at it every day — to Renee’s knowledge, I was still sick, 
but mending). We bought the tickets for Italy the day 
after Renesmee turned three months. I planned for it 
to be a very short trip, so I hadn’t told Charlie about 



597 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




it. Jacob knew, and he took Edward’s view on things. 
However, today the argument was about Brazil. Jacob 
was determined to come with us. 

The three of us, Jacob, Renesmee, and I, were 
hunting together. The diet of animal blood wasn’t 
Renesmee’s favorite thing — and that was why Jacob 
was allowed to come along. Jacob had made it a 
contest between them, and that made her more 
willing than anything else. 

Renesmee was quite clear on the whole good vs. bad 
as it applied to hunting humans; she just thought 
that donated blood made a nice compromise. Human 
food filled her and it seemed compatible with her 
system, but she reacted to all varieties of solid food 
with the same martyred endurance I had once given 
cauliflower and lima beans. Animal blood was better 
than that, at least. She had a competitive nature, and 
the challenge of beating Jacob made her excited to 
hunt. 

“Jacob,” I said, trying to reason with him again while 
Renesmee danced ahead of us into the long clearing, 
searching for a scent she liked. “You’ve got obligations 
here. Seth, Leah — ” 

He snorted. “I’m not my pack’s nanny. They’ve all got 
responsibilities in La Push anyway.” 

“Sort of like you? Are you officially dropping out of 
high school, then? If you’re going to keep up with 
Renesmee, you’re going to have to study a lot harder.” 

“It’s just a sabbatical. I’ll get back to school when 
things... slow down.” 



598 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I lost my concentration on my side of the 
disagreement when he said that, and we both 
automatically looked at Renesmee. She was staring at 
the snowflakes fluttering high above her head, 
melting before they could stick to the yellowed grass 
in the long arrowhead-shaped meadow that we were 
standing in. Her ruffled ivory dress was just a shade 
darker than the snow, and her reddish-brown curls 
managed to shimmer, though the sun was buried 
deeply behind the clouds. 

As we watched, she crouched for an instant and then 
sprang fifteen feet up into the air. Her little hands 
closed around a flake, and she dropped lightly to her 
feet. She turned to us with her shocking smile — truly, 
it wasn’t something you could get used to — and 
opened her hands to show us the perfectly formed 
eight-pointed ice star in her palm before it melted. 

“Pretty,” Jacob called to her appreciatively. “But I 
think you’re stalling, Nessie.” 

She bounded back to Jacob; he held his arms out at 
exactly the moment she leaped into them. They had 
the move perfectly synchronized. She did this when 
she had something to say. She still preferred not to 
speak aloud. 

Renesmee touched his face, scowling adorably as we 
all listened to the sound of a small herd of elk moving 
farther into the wood. 

“Suuuure you’re not thirsty, Nessie,” Jacob answered 
a little sarcastically, but more indulgently than 
anything else. “You’re just afraid I’ll catch the biggest 
one again!” 

599 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




She flipped backward out of Jacob’s arms, landing 
lightly on her feet, and rolled her eyes — she looked so 
much like Edward when she did that. Then she 
darted off toward the trees. 

“Got it,” Jacob said when I leaned as if to follow. He 
yanked his t-shirt off as he charged after her into the 
forest, already trembling. “It doesn’t count if you 
cheat,” he called to Renesmee. 

I smiled at the leaves they left fluttering behind them, 
shaking my head. Jacob was more a child than 
Renesmee sometimes. 

I paused, giving my hunters a few minutes’ head 
start. It would be beyond simple to track them, and 
Renesmee would love to surprise me with the size of 
her prey. I smiled again. 

The narrow meadow was very still, very empty. The 
fluttering snow was thinning above me, almost gone. 
Alice had seen that it wouldn’t stick for many weeks. 
Usually Edward and I came together on these hunting 
trips. But Edward was with Carlisle today, planning 
the trip to Rio, talking behind Jacob’s back.... I 
frowned. When I returned, I would take Jacob’s side. 
He should come with us. He had as big a stake in this 
as any of us — his entire life was at stake, just like 
mine. While my thoughts were lost in the near future, 
my eyes swept the mountainside routinely, searching 
for prey, searching for danger. I didn’t think about it; 
the urge was an automatic thing. 

Or perhaps there was a reason for my scanning, some 
tiny trigger that my razor-sharp senses had caught 
before I realized it consciously. 

600 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




As my eyes flitted across the edge of a distant cliff, 
standing out starkly blue-gray against the green- 
black forest, a glint of silver — or was it gold? — gripped 
my attention. My gaze zeroed in on the color that 
shouldn’t have been there, so far away in the haze 
that an eagle wouldn’t have been able to make it out. 

I stared. She stared back. 

That she was a vampire was obvious. Her skin was 
marble white, the texture a million times smoother 
than human skin. Even under the clouds, she 
glistened ever so slightly. If her skin had not given her 
away, her stillness would have. Only vampires and 
statues could be so perfectly motionless. 

Her hair was pale, pale blond, almost silver. This was 
the gleam that had caught my eye. It hung straight as 
a ruler to a blunt edge at her chin, parted evenly 
down the center. She was a stranger to me. I was 
absolutely certain I’d never seen her before, even as a 
human. None of the faces in my muddy memory were 
the same as this one. But I knew her at once from her 
dark golden eyes. 

Irina had decided to come after all. 

For one moment I stared at her, and she stared back. 

I wondered if she would guess immediately who I was 
as well. I half-raised my hand, about to wave, but her 
lip twisted the tiniest bit, making her face suddenly 
hostile. 

I heard Renesmee’s cry of victory from the forest, 
heard Jacob’s echoing howl, and saw Irina’s face jerk 
reflexively to the sound when it echoed to her a few 
seconds later. Her gaze cut slightly to the right, and I 

601 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




knew what she was seeing. An enormous russet 
werewolf, perhaps the very one who had killed her 
Laurent. How long had she been watching us? Long 
enough to see our affectionate exchange before, I was 
sure. Her face spasmed in pain. 

Instinctually, I opened my hands in front of me in an 
apologetic gesture. She turned back to me, and her 
lip curled back over her teeth. Her jaw unlocked as 
she growled. When the faint sound reached me, she 
had already turned and disappeared into the forest. 

“Crap!” I groaned. 

I sprinted into the forest after Renesmee and Jacob, 
unwilling to have them out of my sight. I didn’t know 
which direction Irina had taken, or exactly how 
furious she was right now. Vengeance was a common 
obsession for vampires, one that was not easy to 
suppress. 

Running at full speed, it only took me two seconds to 
reach them. 

“Mine is bigger,” I heard Renesmee insist as I burst 
through the thick thornbushes to the small open 
space where they stood. 

Jacob’s ears flattened as he took in my expression; he 
crouched forward, baring his teeth 

— his muzzle was streaked with blood from his kill. 

His eyes raked the forest. I could hear the growl 
building in his throat. 

Renesmee was every bit as alert as Jacob. 

Abandoning the dead stag at her feet, she leaped into 

602 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




my waiting arms, pressing her curious hands against 
my cheeks. 

“I’m overreacting,” I assured them quickly. “It’s okay, I 
think. Hold on.” 

I pulled out my cell phone and hit the speed dial. 
Edward answered on the first ring. Jacob and 
Renesmee listened intently to my side as I filled 
Edward in. 

“Come, bring Carlisle,” I trilled so fast I wondered if 
Jacob could keep up. “I saw Irina, and she saw me, 
but then she saw Jacob and she got mad and ran 
away, I think. She hasn’t shown up here — yet, 
anyway — but she looked pretty upset so maybe she 
will. If she doesn’t, you and Carlisle have to go after 
her and talk to her. I feel so bad.” 

Jacob rumbled. 

“Well be there in half a minute,” Edward assured me, 
and I could hear the whoosh of the wind his running 
made. 

We darted back to the long meadow and then waited 
silently as Jacob and I listened carefully for the sound 
of an approach we did not recognize. 

When the sound came, though, it was very familiar. 
And then Edward was at my side, Carlisle a few 
seconds behind. I was surprised to hear the heavy 
pad of big paws following behind Carlisle. I supposed 
I shouldn’t have been shocked. With Renesmee in 
even a hint of danger, of course Jacob would call in 
reinforcements . 



603 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She was up on that ridge,” I told them at once, 
pointing out the spot. If Irina was fleeing, she already 
had quite a head start. Would she stop and listen to 
Carlisle? Her expression before made me think not. 
“Maybe you should call Emmett and Jasper and have 
them come with you. She looked... really upset. She 
growled at me.” 

“What?” Edward said angrily. 

Carlisle put a hand on his arm. “She’s grieving. I’ll go 
after her.” 

“I’m coming with you,” Edward insisted. 

They exchanged a long glance — perhaps Carlisle was 
measuring Edward’s irritation with Irina against his 
helpfulness as a mind reader. Finally, Carlisle 
nodded, and they took off to find the trail without 
calling for Jasper or Emmett. Jacob huffed 
impatiently and poked my back with his nose. He 
must want Renesmee back at the safety of the house, 
just in case. I agreed with him on that, and we 
hurried home with Seth and Leah running at our 
flanks. 

Renesmee was complacent in my arms, one hand still 
resting on my face. Since the hunting trip had been 
aborted, she would just have to make do with donated 
blood. Her thoughts were a little smug. 



604 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





THE FUTURE 



Carlisle and Edward had not been able to catch up 
with Irina before her trail disappeared into the sound. 
They’d swum to the other bank to see if her trail had 
picked up in a straight line, but there was no trace of 
her for miles in either direction on the eastern shore. 

It was all my fault. She had come, as Alice had seen, 
to make peace with the Cullens, only to be angered by 
my camaraderie with Jacob. I wished I’d noticed her 
earlier, before Jacob had phased. I wished we’d gone 
hunting somewhere else. There wasn’t much to be 
done. Carlisle had called Tanya with the 
disappointing news. Tanya and Kate hadn’t seen Irina 
since they’d decided to come to my wedding, and they 
were distraught that Irina had come so close and yet 
not returned home; it wasn’t easy for them to lose 
their sister, however temporary the separation might 
be. I wondered if this brought back hard memories of 
losing their mother so many centuries ago. Alice was 
able to catch a few glimpses of Irina’s immediate 
future, nothing too concrete. She wasn’t going back to 
Denali, as far as Alice could tell. The picture was 
hazy. All Alice could see was that Irina was visibly 
upset; she wandered in the snowswathed 
wilderness — to the north? To the east? — with a 
devastated expression. She made no decisions for a 
new course beyond her directionless grieving. Days 
passed and, though of course I forgot nothing, Irina 
and her pain moved to the back of my mind. There 
were more important things to think of now. I would 
605 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



leave for Italy in just a few days. When I got back, 
we’d all be off to South America. Every detail had 
been gone over a hundred times already. We would 
start with the Ticunas, tracing their legends as well as 
we could at the source. Now that it was accepted that 
Jacob would come with us, he figured prominently in 
the plans — it was unlikely that the people who 
believed in vampires would speak to any of us about 
their stories. If we dead-ended with the Ticunas, there 
were many closely related tribes in the area to 
research. Carlisle had some old friends in the 
Amazon; if we could find them, they might have 
information for us, too. Or at least a suggestion as to 
where else we might go for answers. It was unlikely 
that the three Amazon vampires had anything to do 
with the legends of vampire hybrids themselves, as 
they were all female. There was no way to know how 
long our search would take. 

I hadn’t told Charlie about the longer trip yet, and I 
stewed about what to say to him while Edward and 
Carlisle’s discussion went on. How to break the news 
to him just right? 

I stared at Renesmee while I debated internally. She 
was curled up on the sofa now, her breathing slow 
with heavy sleep, her tangled curls splayed wildly 
around her face. Usually, Edward and I took her back 
to our cottage to put her to bed, but tonight we 
lingered with the family, he and Carlisle deep in their 
planning session. Meanwhile, Emmett and Jasper 
were more excited about planning the hunting 
possibilities. The Amazon offered a change from our 
normal quarry. Jaguars and panthers, for example. 



606 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett had a whim to wrestle with an anaconda. 
Esme and Rosalie were planning what they would 
pack. Jacob was off with Sam’s pack, setting things 
up for his own absence. 

Alice moved slowly — for her — around the big room, 
unnecessarily tidying the already immaculate space, 
straightening Esme’s perfectly hung garlands. She 
was re-centering Esme’s vases on the console at the 
moment. I could see from the way her face fluctuated 

— aware, then blank, then aware again — that she was 
searching the future. I assumed she was trying to see 
through the blind spots that Jacob and Renesmee 
made in her visions as to what was waiting for us in 
South America until Jasper said, “Let it go, Alice; 
she’s not our concern,” and a cloud of serenity stole 
silently and invisibly through the room. Alice must 
have been worrying about Irina again. 

She stuck her tongue out at Jasper and then lifted 
one crystal vase that was filled with white and red 
roses and turned toward the kitchen. There was just 
the barest hint of wilt to one of the white flowers, but 
Alice seemed intent on utter perfection as a 
distraction to her lack of vision tonight. 

Staring at Renesmee again, I didn’t see it when the 
vase slipped from Alice’s fingers. I only heard the 
whoosh of the air whistling past the crystal, and my 
eyes flickered up in time to see the vase shatter into 
ten thousand diamond shards against the edge of the 
kitchen’s marble floor. 



We were perfectly still as the fragmented crystal 
bounced and skittered in every direction with an 

607 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




unmusical tinkling, all eyes on Alice’s back. My first 
illogical thought was that Alice was playing some joke 
on us. Because there was no way that Alice could 
have dropped the vase by accident. I could have 
darted across the room to catch the vase in plenty of 
time myself, if I hadn’t assumed she would get it. And 
how would it fall through her fingers in the first 
place? Her perfectly sure fingers... 

I had never seen a vampire drop anything by 
accident. Ever. 

And then Alice was facing us, twisting in a move so 
fast it didn’t exist. Her eyes were halfway here and 
halfway locked on the future, wide, staring, filling her 
thin face till they seemed to overflow it. Looking into 
her eyes was like looking out of a grave from the 
inside; I was buried in the terror and despair and 
agony of her gaze. I heard Edward gasp; it was a 
broken, half-choked sound. 

“What? ” Jasper growled, leaping to her side in a 
blurred rush of movement, crushing the broken 
crystal under his feet. He grabbed her shoulders and 
shook her sharply. She seemed to rattle silently in his 
hands. “What, Alice?” 

Emmett moved into my peripheral vision, his teeth 
bared while his eyes darted toward the window, 
anticipating an attack. 

There was only silence from Esme, Carlisle, and Rose, 
who were frozen just as I was. Jasper shook Alice 
again. “What is it?” 



608 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“They’re coming for us,” Alice and Edward whispered 
together, perfectly synchronized. 

“All of them.” 

Silence. 

For once, I was the quickest to understand — because 
something in their words triggered my own vision. It 
was only the distant memory of a dream — faint, 
transparent, indistinct as if I were peering through 
thick gauze.... In my head, I saw a line of black 
advancing on me, the ghost of my half-forgotten 
human nightmare. I could not see the glint of their 
ruby eyes in the shrouded image, or the shine of their 
sharp wet teeth, but I knew where the gleam should 
be. . . . 

Stronger than the memory of the sight came the 
memory of the feel — the wrenching need to protect the 
precious thing behind me. 

I wanted to snatch Renesmee up into my arms, to 
hide her behind my skin and hair, to make her 
invisible. But I couldn’t even turn to look at her. I felt 
not like stone but ice. For the first time since I’d been 
reborn a vampire, I felt cold. I barely heard the 
confirmation of my fears. I didn’t need it. I already 
knew. 

“The Volturi,” Alice moaned. 

“All of them,” Edward groaned at the same time. 
“Why?” Alice whispered to herself. “How?” 

“When?” Edward whispered. 



609 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why?” Esme echoed. 

“When?” Jasper repeated in a voice like splintering 
ice. Alice’s eyes didn’t blink, but it was as if a veil 
covered them; they became perfectly blank. Only her 
mouth held on to her expression of horror. 

“Not long,” she and Edward said together. Then she 
spoke alone. “There’s snow on the forest, snow on the 
town. Little more than a month.” 

“Why?” Carlisle was the one to ask this time. 

Esme answered. “They must have a reason. Maybe to 
see . . .” 

“This isn’t about Bella,” Alice said hollowly. “They’re 
all coming — Aro, Caius, Marcus, every member of the 
guard, even the wives.” 

“The wives never leave the tower,” Jasper contradicted 
her in a flat voice. “Never. Not during the southern 
rebellion. Not when the Romanians tried to overthrow 
them. Not even when they were hunting the immortal 
children. Never.” 

“They’re coming now,” Edward whispered. 

“But why?” Carlisle said again. “We’ve done nothing! 
And if we had, what could we possibly do that would 
bring this down on us?” 

“There are so many of us,” Edward answered dully. 
“They must want to make sure that . 

. .” He didn’t finish. 

“That doesn’t answer the crucial question! Why?” 



610 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt I knew the answer to Carlisle’s question, and yet 
at the same time I didn’t. Renesmee was the reason 
why, I was sure. Somehow I’d known from the very 
beginning that they would come for her. My 
subconscious had warned me before I’d known I was 
carrying her. It felt oddly expected now. As if I’d 
somehow always known that the Volturi would come 
to take my happiness from me. 

But that still didn’t answer the question. 

“Go back, Alice,” Jasper pleaded. “Look for the trigger. 
Search.” 

Alice shook her head slowly, her shoulders sagging. 

“It came out of nowhere, Jazz. I wasn’t looking for 
them, or even for us. I was just looking for Irina. She 
wasn’t where I expected her to be. . . .” Alice trailed 
off, her eyes drifting again. She stared at nothing for a 
long second. 

And then her head jerked up, her eyes hard as flint. I 
heard Edward catch his breath. 

“She decided to go to them,” Alice said. “Irina decided 
to go to the Volturi. And then they will decide.... It’s 
as if they’re waiting for her. Like their decision was 
already made, and just waiting on her. . . .” 

It was silent again as we digested this. What would 
Irina tell the Volturi that would result in Alice’s 
appalling vision? 

“Can we stop her?” Jasper asked. 

“There’s no way. She’s almost there.” 



611 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What is she doing?” Carlisle was asking, but I wasn’t 
paying attention to the discussion now. All my focus 
was on the picture that was painstakingly coming 
together in my head. 

I pictured Irina poised on the cliff, watching. What 
had she seen? A vampire and a werewolf who were 
best friends. I’d been focused on that image, one that 
would obviously explain her reaction. But that was 
not all that she’d seen. She’d also seen a child. An 
exquisitely beautiful child, showing off in the falling 
snow, clearly more than human... 

Irina... the orphaned sisters... Carlisle had said that 
losing their mother to the Volturi’s justice had made 
Tanya, Kate, and Irina purists when it came to the 
law. Just half a minute ago, Jasper had said the 
words himself: Not even when they were hunting the 
immortal children.... The immortal children — the 
unmentionable bane, the appalling taboo... 

With Irina’s past, how could she apply any other 
reading to what she’d seen that day in the narrow 
field? She had not been close enough to hear 
Renesmee’s heart, to feel the heat radiating from her 
body. Renesmee’s rosy cheeks could have been a trick 
on our part for all she knew. 

After all, the Cullens were in league with werewolves. 
From Irina’s point of view, maybe this meant nothing 
was beyond us.... 

Irina, wringing her hands in the snowy wilderness — 
not mourning Laurent, after all, but knowing it was 
her duty to turn the Cullens in, knowing what would 
happen to them if she did. Apparently her conscience 

612 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




had won out over the centuries of friendship. And the 
Volturi’s response to this kind of infraction was so 
automatic, it was already decided. 

I turned and draped myself over Renesmee’s sleeping 
body, covering her with my hair, burying my face in 
her curls. 

“Think of what she saw that afternoon,” I said in a 
low voice, interrupting whatever Emmett was 
beginning to say. “To someone who’d lost a mother 
because of the immortal children, what would 
Renesmee look like?” 

Everything was silent again as the others caught up 
to where I was already. 

“An immortal child,” Carlisle whispered. 

I felt Edward kneel beside me, wrap his arms over us 
both. 

“But she’s wrong,” I went on. “Renesmee isn’t like 
those other children. They were frozen, but she grows 
so much every day. They were out of control, but she 
never hurts Charlie or Sue or even shows them things 
that would upset them. She can control herself. She’s 
already smarter than most adults. There would be no 
reason. . . .” 

I babbled on, waiting for someone to exhale with 
relief, waiting for the icy tension in the room to relax 
as they realized I was right. The room just seemed to 
get colder. Eventually my small voice trailed off into 
silence. 



No one spoke for a long time. 

613 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Then Edward whispered into my hair. “It’s not the 
kind of crime they hold a trial for, love,” he said 
quietly. “Aro’s seen Irina’s proof in her thoughts. They 
come to destroy, not to be reasoned with.” 

“But they’re wrong,” I said stubbornly. 

“They won’t wait for us to show them that.” 

His voice was still quiet, gentle, velvet... and yet the 
pain and desolation in the sound was unavoidable. 

His voice was like Alice’s eyes before — like the inside 
of a tomb. 

“What can we do?” I demanded. 

Renesmee was so warm and perfect in my arms, 
dreaming peacefully. I’d worried so much about 
Renesmee ’s speeding age — worried that she would 
only have little over a decade of life.... That terror 
seemed ironic now. 

Little over a month... 

Was this the limit, then? I’d had more happiness than 
most people ever experienced. Was there some 
natural law that demanded equal shares of happiness 
and misery in the world? Was my joy overthrowing 
the balance? Was four months all I could have? 

It was Emmett who answered my rhetorical question. 

“We fight,” he said calmly. 

“We can’t win,” Jasper growled. I could imagine how 
his face would look, how his body would curve 
protectively over Alice’s. 



614 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, we can’t run. Not with Demetri around.” 

Emmett made a disgusted noise, and I knew 
instinctively that he was not upset by the idea of the 
Volturi’s tracker but by the idea of running away. 

“And I don’t know that we can’t win,” he said. “There 
are a few options to consider. We don’t have to fight 
alone.” 

My head snapped up at that. “We don’t have to 
sentence the Quileutes to death, either, Emmett!” 

“Chill, Bella.” His expression was no different from 
when he was contemplating fighting anacondas. Even 
the threat of annihilation couldn’t change Emmett’s 
perspective, his ability to thrill to a challenge. “I didn’t 
mean the pack. Be realistic, though — do you think 
Jacob or Sam is going to ignore an invasion? Even if it 
wasn’t about Nessie? Not to mention that, thanks to 
Irina, Aro knows about our alliance with the pack 
now, too. But I was thinking of our other friends.” 

Carlisle echoed me in a whisper. “Other friends we 
don’t have to sentence to death.” 

“Hey, we’ll let them decide,” Emmett said in a 
placating tone. “I’m not saying they have to fight with 
us.” I could see the plan refining itself in his head as 
he spoke. “If they’d just stand beside us, just long 
enough to make the Volturi hesitate. Bella’s right, 
after all. If we could force them to stop and listen. 
Though that might take away any reason for a fight. . 



There was a hint of a smile on Emmett’s face now. I 
was surprised no one had hit him yet. I wanted to. 



615 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yes,” Esme said eagerly. “That makes sense, 

Emmett. All we need is for the Volturi to pause for 
one moment. Just long enough to listen.” 

“We’d need quite a show of witnesses,” Rosalie said 
harshly, her voice brittle as glass. Esme nodded in 
agreement, as if she hadn’t heard the sarcasm in 
Rosalie’s tone. “We can ask that much of our friends. 
Just to witness.” 

“We’d do it for them,” Emmett said. 

“Well have to ask them just right,” Alice murmured. I 
looked to see her eyes were a dark void again. “They’ll 
have to be shown very carefully.” 

“Shown?” Jasper asked. 

Alice and Edward both looked down at Renesmee. 
Then Alice’s eyes glazed over. 

“Tanya’s family,” she said. “Siobhan’s coven. Amun’s. 
Some of the nomads — Garrett and Mary for certain. 
Maybe Alistair.” 

“What about Peter and Charlotte?” Jasper asked half 
fearfully, as if he hoped the answer was no, and his 
old brother could be spared from the coming carnage. 

“Maybe.” 

“The Amazons?” Carlisle asked. “Kachiri, Zafrina, and 
Senna?” 

Alice seemed too deep into her vision to answer at 
first; finally she shuddered, and her eyes flickered 



616 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




back to the present. She met Carlisle’s gaze for the 
tiniest part of a second, and then looked down. 

“I can’t see.” 

“What was that?” Edward asked, his whisper a 
demand. “That part in the jungle. Are we going to look 
for them?” 

“I can’t see,” Alice repeated, not meeting his eyes. A 
flash of confusion crossed Edward’s face. “We’ll have 
to split up and hurry — before the snow sticks to the 
ground. We have to round up whomever we can and 
get them here to show them.” She zoned again. “Ask 
Eleazar. There is more to this than just an immortal 
child.” 

The silence was ominous for another long moment 
while Alice was in her trance. She blinked slowly 
when it was over, her eyes peculiarly opaque despite 
the fact that she was clearly in the present. 

“There is so much. We have to hurry,” she whispered. 

“Alice?” Edward asked. “That was too fast — I didn’t 
understand. What was — ?” 

“I can’t see!” she exploded back at him. “Jacob’s 
almost here!” 

Rosalie took a step toward the front door. “I’ll deal 
with—” 

“No, let him come,” Alice said quickly, her voice 
straining higher with each word. She grabbed 
Jasper’s hand and began pulling him toward the back 
door. “I’ll see better away from Nessie, too. I need to 



617 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




go. I need to really concentrate. I need to see 
everything I can. I have to go. Come on, Jasper, 
there’s no time to waste!” 

We all could hear Jacob on the stairs. Alice yanked, 
impatient, on Jasper’s hand. He followed quickly, 
confusion in his eyes just like Edward’s. They darted 
out the door into the silver night. 

“Hurry!” she called back to us. “You have to find them 
all!” 

“Find what?” Jacob asked, shutting the front door 
behind himself. “Where ’d Alice go?” 

No one answered; we all just stared. 

Jacob shook the wet from his hair and pulled his 
arms through the sleeves of his t-shirt, his eyes on 
Renesmee. “Hey, Bells! I thought you guys would’ve 
gone home by now. . . 



He looked up to me finally, blinked, and then stared. I 
watched his expression as the room’s atmosphere 
finally touched him. He glanced down, eyes wide, at 
the wet spot on the floor, the scattered roses, the 
fragments of crystal. His fingers quivered. 

“What?” he asked flatly. “What happened?” 

I couldn’t think where to begin. No one else found the 
words, either. Jacob crossed the room in three long 
strides and dropped to his knees beside Renesmee 
and me. I could feel the heat shaking off his body as 
tremors rolled down his arms to his shaking hands. 



618 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Is she okay?” he demanded, touching her forehead, 
tilting his head as he listened to her heart. “Don’t 
mess with me, Bella, please!” 

“Nothing’s wrong with Renesmee,” I choked out, the 
words breaking in strange places. 

“Then who?” 

“All of us, Jacob,” I whispered. And it was there in my 
voice, too — the sound of the inside of a grave. “It’s 
over. We’ve all been sentenced to die.” 



619 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





We sat there all night long, statues of horror and 
grief, and Alice never came back. We were all at our 
limits — frenzied into absolute stillness. Carlisle had 
barely been able to move his lips to explain it all to 
Jacob. The retelling seemed to make it worse; even 
Emmett stood silent and still from then on. 

It wasn’t until the sun rose and I knew that Renesmee 
would soon be stirring under my hands that I 
wondered for the first time what could possibly be 
taking Alice so long. I’d hoped to know more before I 
was faced with my daughter’s curiosity. To have some 
answers. Some tiny, tiny portion of hope so that I 
could smile and keep the truth from terrifying her, 
too. 

My face felt permanently set into the fixed mask it 
had worn all night. I wasn’t sure I had the ability to 
smile anymore. 

Jacob was snoring in the corner, a mountain of fur on 
the floor, twitching anxiously in his sleep. Sam knew 
everything — the wolves were readying themselves for 
what was coming. Not that this preparation would do 
anything but get them killed with the rest of my 
family. 

The sunlight broke through the back windows, 
sparkling on Edward’s skin. My eyes had not moved 
from his since Alice’s departure. We’d stared at each 
other all night, staring at what neither of us could live 



620 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



through losing: the other. I saw my reflection glimmer 
in his agonized eyes as the sun touched my own skin. 

His eyebrows moved an infinitesimal bit, then his lips. 

“Alice,” he said. 

The sound of his voice was like ice cracking as it 
melted. All of us fractured a little, softened a little. 
Moved again. 

“She’s been gone a long time,” Rosalie murmured, 
surprised. 

“Where could she be?” Emmett wondered, taking a 
step toward the door. Esme put a hand on her arm. 
“We don’t want to disturb . . .” 

“She’s never taken so long before,” Edward said. New 
worry splintered the mask his face had become. His 
features were alive again, his eyes suddenly wide with 
fresh fear, extra panic. “Carlisle, you don’t think — 
something preemptive? Would Alice have had time to 
see if they sent someone for her?” 

Aro’s translucent-skinned face filled my head. Aro, 
who had seen into all the corners of Alice’s mind, who 
knew everything she was capable of — 

Emmett cussed loud enough that Jacob lurched to 
his feet with a growl. In the yard, his growl was 
echoed by his pack. My family was already a blur of 
action. 

“Stay with Renesmee!” I all but shrieked at Jacob as I 
sprinted through the door. I was still stronger than 
the rest of them, and I used that strength to push 



621 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




myself forward. I overtook Esme in a few bounds, and 
Rosalie in just a few strides more. I raced through the 
thick forest until I was right behind Edward and 
Carlisle. 

“Would they have been able to surprise her?” Carlisle 
asked, his voice as even as if he were standing 
motionless rather than running at full speed. 

“I don’t see how,” Edward answered. “But Aro knows 
her better than anyone else. Better than I do.” 

“Is this a trap?” Emmett called from behind us. 

“Maybe,” Edward said. “There’s no scent but Alice and 
Jasper. Where were they going?” 

Alice and Jasper’s trail was curling into a wide arc; it 
stretched first east of the house, but headed north on 
the other side of the river, and then back west again 
after a few miles. We recrossed the river, all six 
jumping within a second of each other. Edward ran in 
the lead, his concentration total. 

“Did you catch that scent?” Esme called ahead a few 
moments after we’d leaped the river for the second 
time. She was the farthest back, on the far left edge of 
our hunting party. She gestured to the southeast. 

“Keep to the main trail — we’re almost to the Quileute 
border,” Edward ordered tersely. 

“Stay together. See if they turned north or south.” 

I was not as familiar with the treaty line as the rest of 
them, but I could smell the hint of wolf in the breeze 
blowing from the east. Edward and Carlisle slowed a 



622 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




little out of habit, and I could see their heads sweep 
from side to side, waiting for the trail to turn. Then 
the wolf smell was suddenly stronger, and Edward’s 
head snapped up. He came to a sudden stop. The rest 
of us froze, too. 

“Sam?” Edward asked in a flat voice. “What is this?” 

Sam came through the trees a few hundred yards 
away, walking quickly toward us in his human form, 
flanked by two big wolves — Paul and Jared. It took 
Sam a while to reach us; his human pace made me 
impatient. I didn’t want time to think about what was 
happening. I wanted to be in motion, to be doing 
something. I wanted to have my arms around Alice, to 
know beyond a doubt that she was safe. 

I watched Edward’s face go absolutely white as he 
read what Sam was thinking. Sam ignored him, 
looking straight at Carlisle as he stopped walking and 
began to speak. 

“Right after midnight, Alice and Jasper came to this 
place and asked permission to cross our land to the 
ocean. I granted them that and escorted them to the 
coast myself. They went immediately into the water 
and did not return. As we journeyed, Alice told me it 
was of the utmost importance that I say nothing to 
Jacob about seeing her until I spoke to you. I was to 
wait here for you to come looking for her and then 
give you this note. She told me to obey her as if all 
our lives depended on it.” 

Sam’s face was grim as he held out a folded sheet of 
paper, printed all over with small black text. It was a 
page out of a book; my sharp eyes read the printed 

623 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




words as Carlisle unfolded it to see the other side. 

The side facing me was the copyright page from The 
Merchant of Venice. A hint of my own scent blew off of 
it as Carlisle shook the paper flat. I realized it was a 
page torn from one of my books. I’d brought a few 
things from Charlie’s house to the cottage; a few sets 
of normal clothes, all the letters from my mother, and 
my favorite books. My tattered collection of 
Shakespeare paperbacks had been on the bookshelf 
in the cottage’s little living room yesterday morning.... 

“Alice has decided to leave us,” Carlisle whispered. 

“What?” Rosalie cried. 

Carlisle turned the page around so that we all could 
read. 

Don’t look for us. There isn’t time to waste. 

Remember: Tanya, Siobhan, Amun, Alistair, all the 
nomads you can find. Well seek out Peter and 
Charlotte on our way. We’re so sorry that we have to 
leave you this way, with no goodbyes or explanations. 
It’s the only way for us. We love you. 

We stood frozen again, the silence total but for the 
sound of the wolves’ heartbeats, their breathing. Their 
thoughts must have been loud, too. Edward was first 
to move again, speaking in response to what he heard 
in Sam’s head. 

“Yes, things are that dangerous.” 

“Enough that you would abandon your family?” Sam 
asked out loud, censure in his tone. It was clear that 
he had not read the note before giving it to Carlisle. 



624 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He was upset now, looking as if he regretted listening 
to Alice. 

Edward’s expression was stiff — to Sam it probably 
looked angry or arrogant, but I could see the shape of 
pain in the hard planes of his face. 

“We don’t know what she saw,” Edward said. “Alice is 
neither unfeeling nor a coward. She just has more 
information than we do.” 

“We would not — ,” Sam began. 

“You are bound differently than we are,” Edward 
snapped. “We each still have our free will.” 

Sam’s chin jerked up, and his eyes looked suddenly 
flat black. 

“But you should heed the warning,” Edward went on. 
“This is not something you want to involve yourselves 
in. You can still avoid what Alice saw.” 

Sam smiled grimly. “We don’t run away.” Behind him, 
Paul snorted. 

“Don’t get your family slaughtered for pride,” Carlisle 
interjected quietly. Sam looked at Carlisle with a 
softer expression. “As Edward pointed out, we don’t 
have the same kind of freedom that you have. 
Renesmee is as much as part of our family now as 
she is yours. Jacob cannot abandon her, and we 
cannot abandon him.” His eyes flickered to Alice’s 
note, and his lips pressed into a thin line. 

“You don’t know her,” Edward said. 



625 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you?” Sam asked bluntly. 



Carlisle put a hand on Edward’s shoulder. “We have 
much to do, son. Whatever Alice’s decision, we would 
be foolish not to follow her advice now. Let’s go home 
and get to work.” 

Edward nodded, his face still rigid with pain. Behind 
me, I could hear Esme’s quiet, tearless sobs. 

I didn’t know how to cry in this body; I couldn’t do 
anything but stare. There was no feeling yet. 
Everything seemed unreal, like I was dreaming again 
after all these months. Having a nightmare. 

“Thank you, Sam,” Carlisle said. 

“I’m sorry,” Sam answered. “We shouldn’t have let her 
through.” 

“You did the right thing,” Carlisle told him. “Alice is 
free to do what she will. I wouldn’t deny her that 
liberty.” 

I’d always thought of the Cullens as a whole, an 
indivisible unit. Suddenly, I remembered that it had 
not always been so. Carlisle had created Edward, 
Esme, Rosalie and Emmett; Edward had created me. 
We were physically linked by blood and venom. I 
never thought of Alice and Jasper as separate — as 
adopted into the family. But in truth, Alice had 
adopted the Cullens. She had shown up with her 
unconnected past, bringing Jasper with his, and fit 
herself into the family that was already there. Both 
she and Jasper had known another life outside the 
Cullen family. Had she really chosen to lead another 



626 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




new life after she’d seen that life with the Cullens was 
over? 

We were doomed, then, weren’t we? There was no 
hope at all. Not one ray, one flicker that might have 
convinced Alice she had a chance at our side. 

The bright morning air seemed thicker suddenly, 
blacker, as if physically darkened by my despair. 

“I’m not going down without a fight,” Emmett snarled 
low under his breath. “Alice told us what to do. Let’s 
get it done.” 

The others nodded with determined expressions, and 
I realized that they were banking on whatever chance 
Alice had given us. That they were not going to give in 
to hopelessness and wait to die. 

Yes, we all would fight. What else was there? And 
apparently we would involve others, because Alice 
had said so before she’d left us. How could we not 
follow Alice’s last warning? The wolves, too, would 
fight with us for Renesmee. 

We would fight, they would fight, and we all would 
die. 

I didn’t feel the same resolve the others seemed to 
feel. Alice knew the odds. She was giving us the only 
chance she could see, but the chance was too slim for 
her to bet on it. I felt already beaten as I turned my 
back on Sam’s critical face and followed Carlisle 
toward home. 



627 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




We ran automatically now, not the same panicked 
hurry as before. As we neared the river, Esme’s head 
lifted. 



“There was that other trail. It was fresh.” 

She nodded forward, toward where she had called 
Edward’s attention on the way here. While we were 
racing to save Alice... 

“It has to be from earlier in the day. It was just Alice, 
without Jasper,” Edward said lifelessly. 

Esme’s face puckered, and she nodded. 

I drifted to the right, falling a little behind. I was sure 
Edward was right, but at the same time... After all, 
how had Alice’s note ended up on a page from my 
book? 

“Bella?” Edward asked in an emotionless voice as I 
hesitated. 

“I want to follow the trail,” I told him, smelling the 
light scent of Alice that led away from her earlier 
flight path. I was new to this, but it smelled exactly 
the same to me, just minus the scent of Jasper. 

Edward’s golden eyes were empty. “It probably just 
leads back to the house.” 

“Then 111 meet you there.” 

At first I thought he would let me go alone, but then, 
as I moved a few steps away, his blank eyes flickered 
to life. 



628 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll come with you,” he said quietly. “We’ll meet you at 
home, Carlisle.” 

Carlisle nodded, and the others left. I waited until 
they were out of sight, and then I looked at Edward 
questioningly. 

“I couldn’t let you walk away from me,” he explained 
in a low voice. “It hurt just to imagine it.” 

I understood without more explanation than that. I 
thought of being divided from him now and realized I 
would have felt the same pain, no matter how short 
the separation. There was so little time left to be 
together. 

I held my hand out to him, and he took it. 

“Let’s hurry,” he said. “Renesmee will be awake.” 

I nodded, and we were running again. 

It was probably a silly thing, to waste the time away 
from Renesmee just for curiosity’s sake. But the note 
bothered me. Alice could have carved the note into a 
boulder or tree trunk if she lacked writing utensils. 
She could have stolen a pad of Post-its from any of 
the houses by the highway. Why my book? When did 
she get it? 

Sure enough, the trail led back to the cottage by a 
circuitous route that stayed far clear of the Cullens’ 
house and the wolves in the nearby woods. Edward’s 
brows tightened in confusion as it became obvious 
where the trail led. 



629 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He tried to reason it out. “She left Jasper to wait for 
her and came here?” 

We were almost to the cottage now, and I felt uneasy. 

I was glad to have Edward’s hand in mine, but I also 
felt as if I should be here alone. Tearing out the page 
and carrying it back to Jasper was such an odd thing 
for Alice to do. It felt like there was a message in her 
action — one I didn’t understand at all. But it was my 
book, so the message must be for me. If it were 
something she wanted Edward to know, wouldn’t she 
have pulled a page from one of his books... ? 

“Give me just a minute,” I said, pulling my hand free 
as we got to the door. His forehead creased. “Bella?” 

“Please? Thirty seconds.” 

I didn’t wait for him to answer. I darted through the 
door, pulling it shut behind me. I went straight to the 
bookshelf. Alice’s scent was fresh — less than a day 
old. A fire that I had not set burned low but hot in the 
fireplace. I yanked The Merchant of Venice off the 
shelf and flipped it open to the title page. 

There, next to the feathered edge left by the torn page, 
under the words The Merchant of Venice by William 
Shakespeare, was a note. 

Destroy this. 

Below that was a name and an address in Seattle. 

When Edward came through the door after only 
thirteen seconds rather than thirty, I was watching 
the book burn. 



630 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What’s going on, Bella?” 

“She was here. She ripped a page out of my book to 
write her note on.” 

“Why?” 

“I don’t know why.” 

“Why are you burning it?” 

“I — I — ” I frowned, letting all my frustration and pain 
show on my face. I did not know what Alice was trying 
to tell me, only that she’d gone to great lengths to 
keep it from anyone but me. The one person whose 
mind Edward could not read. So she must want to 
keep him in the dark, and it was probably for a good 
reason. “It seemed appropriate.” 

“We don’t know what she’s doing,” he said quietly. 

I stared into the flames. I was the only person in the 
world who could lie to Edward. Was that what Alice 
wanted from me? Her last request? 

“When we were on the plane to Italy,” I whispered — 
this was not a lie, except perhaps in context — “on our 
way to rescue you... she lied to Jasper so that he 
wouldn’t come after us. She knew that if he faced the 
Volturi, he would die. She was willing to die herself 
rather than put him in danger. Willing for me to die, 
too. Willing for you to die.” 

Edward didn’t answer. 



631 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She has her priorities,” I said. It made my still heart 
ache to realize that my explanation did not feel like a 
lie in any way. 

“I don’t believe it,” Edward said. He didn’t say it like 
he was arguing with me — he said it like he was 
arguing with himself. “Maybe it was just Jasper in 
danger. Her plan would work for the rest of us, but 
he’d be lost if he stayed. Maybe ...” 

“She could have told us that. Sent him away.” 

“But would Jasper have gone? Maybe she’s lying to 
him again.” 

“Maybe,” I pretended to agree. “We should go home. 
There’s no time.” 

Edward took my hand, and we ran. 

Alice’s note did not make me hopeful. If there were 
any way to avoid the coming slaughter, Alice would 
have stayed. I couldn’t see another possibility. So it 
was something else she was giving me. Not a way to 
escape. But what else would she think that I wanted? 
Maybe a way to salvage something? Was there 
anything I could still save? 

Carlisle and the others had not been idle in our 
absence. We’d been separated from them for all of five 
minutes, and they were already prepared to leave. In 
the corner, Jacob was human again, with Renesmee 
on his lap, both of them watching us with wide eyes. 
Rosalie had traded her silk wrap dress for a sturdy- 
looking pair of jeans, running shoes, and a button- 
down shirt made of the thick weave that backpackers 



632 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




used for long trips. Esme was dressed similarly. There 
was a globe on the coffee table, but they were done 
looking at it, just waiting for us. 

The atmosphere was more positive now than before; it 
felt good to them to be in action. Their hopes were 
pinned on Alice’s instructions. 

I looked at the globe and wondered where we were 
headed first. 

“We’re to stay here?” Edward asked, looking at 
Carlisle. He didn’t sound happy. 

“Alice said that we would have to show people 
Renesmee, and we would have to be careful about it,” 
Carlisle said. “We’ll send whomever we can find back 
here to you — 

Edward, you’ll be the best at fielding that particular 
minefield.” 

Edward gave one sharp nod, still not happy. “There’s 
a lot of ground to cover.” 

“We’re splitting up,” Emmett answered. “Rose and I 
are hunting for nomads.” 

“You’ll have your hands full here,” Carlisle said. 
“Tanya’s family will be here in the morning, and they 
have no idea why. First, you have to persuade them 
not to react the way Irina did. Second, you’ve got to 
find out what Alice meant about Eleazar. Then, after 
all that, will they stay to witness for us? It will start 
again as the others come — if we can persuade anyone 
to come in the first place.” Carlisle sighed. “Your job 



633 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




may well be the hardest. Well be back to help as soon 
as we can.” 

Carlisle put his hand on Edward’s shoulder for a 
second and then kissed my forehead. Esme hugged 
us both, and Emmett punched us both on the arm. 
Rosalie forced a hard smile for Edward and me, blew 
a kiss to Renesmee, and then gave Jacob a parting 
grimace. 

“Good luck,” Edward told them. 

“And to you,” Carlisle said. “We’ll all need it.” 

I watched them leave, wishing I could feel whatever 
hope bolstered them, and wishing I could be alone 
with the computer for just a few seconds. I had to 
figure out who this J. Jenks person was and why 
Alice had gone to such lengths to give his name to 
only me. Renesmee twisted in Jacob’s arms to touch 
his cheek. 

“I don’t know if Carlisle’s friends will come. I hope so. 
Sounds like we’re a little outnumbered right now,” 
Jacob murmured to Renesmee. 

So she knew. Renesmee already understood only too 
clearly what was going on. The whole imprinted- 
werewolf-gives-the-object-of-his-imprinting-whatever- 
she-wants thing was getting old pretty fast. Wasn’t 
shielding her more important than answering her 
questions? 

I looked carefully at her face. She did not look 
frightened, only anxious and very serious as she 
conversed with Jacob in her silent way. 



634 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No, we can’t help; we’ve got to stay here,” he went on. 
“People are coming to see you, not the scenery.” 

Renesmee frowned at him. 

“No, I don’t have to go anywhere,” he said to her. 

Then he looked at Edward, his face stunned by the 
realization that he might be wrong. “Do I?” 

Edward hesitated. 

“Spit it out,” Jacob said, his voice raw with tension. 

He was right at his breaking point, just like the rest of 
us. 



“The vampires who are coming to help us are not the 
same as we are,” Edward said. 

“Tanya’s family is the only one besides ours with a 
reverence for human life, and even they don’t think 
much of werewolves. I think it might be safer — ” 

“I can take care of myself,” Jacob interrupted. 

“Safer for Renesmee,” Edward continued, “if the 
choice to believe our story about her is not tainted by 
an association with werewolves.” 

“Some friends. They’d turn on you just because of 
who you hang out with now?” 

“I think they would mostly be tolerant under normal 
circumstances. But you need to understand — 
accepting Nessie will not be a simple thing for any of 
them. Why make it even the slightest bit harder?” 



635 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Carlisle had explained the laws about immortal 
children to Jacob last night. “The immortal children 
were really that bad?” he asked. 

“You can’t imagine the depth of the scars they’ve left 
in the collective vampire psyche.” 

“Edward . . .” It was still odd to hear Jacob use 
Edward’s name without bitterness. 

“I know, Jake. I know how hard it is to be away from 
her. We’ll play it by ear — see how they react to her. In 
any case, Nessie is going to have to be incognito off 
and on in the next few weeks. She’ll need to stay at 
the cottage until the right moment for us to introduce 
her. As long as you keep a safe distance from the 
main house ...” 

“I can do that. Company in the morning, huh?” 

“Yes. The closest of our friends. In this particular 
case, it’s probably better if we get things out in the 
open as soon as possible. You can stay here. Tanya 
knows about you. She’s even met Seth.” 

“Right.” 

“You should tell Sam what’s going on. There might be 
strangers in the woods soon.” 

“Good point. Though I owe him some silence after last 
night.” 

“Listening to Alice is usually the right thing.” 



636 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob’s teeth ground together, and I could see that he 
shared Sam’s feelings about what Alice and Jasper 
had done. 

While they were talking, I wandered toward the back 
windows, trying to look distracted and anxious. Not a 
difficult thing to do. I leaned my head against the wall 
that curved away from the living room toward the 
dining room, right next to one of the computer desks. 

I ran my fingers against the keys while staring into 
the forest, trying to make it look like an 
absentminded thing. Did vampires ever do things 
absentmindedly? I didn’t think anyone was paying 
particular attention to me, but I didn’t turn to make 
sure. The monitor glowed to life. I stroked my fingers 
across the keys again. Then I drummed them very 
quietly on the wooden desktop, just to make it seem 
random. Another stroke across the keys. 

I scanned the screen in my peripheral vision. 

No J. Jenks, but there was a Jason Jenks. A lawyer. I 
brushed the keyboard, trying to keep a rhythm, like 
the preoccupied stroking of a cat you’d all but 
forgotten on your lap. Jason Jenks had a fancy 
website for his firm, but the address on the homepage 
was wrong. In Seattle, but in a different zip code. I 
noted the phone number and then stroked the 
keyboard in rhythm. This time I searched the 
address, but nothing at all came up, as if the address 
didn’t exist. I wanted to look at a map, but I decided I 
was pushing my luck. One more brush, to delete the 
history. . . . 



637 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I continued staring out the window and brushed the 
wood a few times. I heard light footsteps crossing the 
floor to me, and I turned with what I hoped was the 
same expression as before. 

Renesmee reached for me, and I held my arms open. 
She launched herself into them, smelling strongly of 
werewolf, and nestled her head against my neck. I 
didn’t know if I could stand this. As much as I feared 
for my life, for Edward’s, for the rest of my family’s, it 
was not the same as the gut-wrenching terror I felt for 
my daughter. There had to be a way to save her, even 
if that was the only thing I could do. Suddenly, I knew 
that this was all I wanted anymore. The rest I would 
bear if I had to, but not her life being forfeited. Not 
that. 

She was the one thing I simply had to save. 

Would Alice have known how I would feel? 

Renesmee ’s hand touched my cheek lightly. 

She showed me my own face, Edward’s, Jacob’s, 
Rosalie’s, Esme’s, Carlisle’s, Alice’s, Jasper’s, flipping 
through all our family’s faces faster and faster. Seth 
and Leah. Charlie, Sue, and Billy. Over and over 
again. Worrying, like the rest of us were. She was only 
worrying, though. Jake had kept the worst from her 
as far as I could tell. The part about how we had no 
hope, how we all were going to die in a month’s time. 
She settled on Alice’s face, longing and confused. 
Where was Alice? 

“I don’t know,” I whispered. “But she’s Alice. She’s 
doing the right thing, like always.” 



638 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The right thing for Alice, anyway. I hated thinking of 
her that way, but how else could the situation be 
understood? 

Renesmee sighed, and the longing intensified. 

“I miss her, too.” 

I felt my face working, trying to find the expression 
that went with the grief inside. My eyes felt strange 
and dry; they blinked against the uncomfortable 
feeling. I bit my lip. When I took my next breath, the 
air hitched in my throat, like I was choking on it. 
Renesmee pulled back to look at me, and I saw my 
face mirrored in her thoughts and in her eyes. I 
looked like Esme had this morning. 

So this was what it felt like to cry. 

Renesmee’s eyes glistened wetly as she watched my 
face. She stroked my face, showing me nothing, just 
trying to soothe me. 

I’d never thought to see the mother-daughter bond 
reversed between us, the way it had always been for 
Renee and me. But I hadn’t had a very clear view of 
the future. A tear welled up on the edge of Renesmee’s 
eye. I wiped it away with a kiss. She touched her eye 
in amazement and then looked at the wetness on her 
fingertip. 

“Don’t cry,” I told her. “It’s going to be okay. You’re 
going to be fine. I will find you a way through this.” 

If there was nothing else I could do, I would still save 
my Renesmee. I was more positive than ever that this 



639 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




was what Alice would give me. She would know. She 
would have left me a way. 



640 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





IRRESISTIBLE 



There was so much to think about. 

How was I going to find time alone to hunt down J. 
Jenks, and why did Alice want me to know about 
him? 

If Alice’s clue had nothing to do with Renesmee, what 
could I do to save my daughter? 

How were Edward and I going to explain things to 
Tanya’s family in the morning? What if they reacted 
like Irina? What if it turned into a fight? 

I didn’t know how to fight. How was I going to learn in 
just a month? Was there any chance at all that I 
could be taught fast enough that I might be a danger 
to any one member of the Volturi? Or was I doomed to 
be totally useless? Just another easily dispatched 
newborn? 

So many answers I needed, but I did not get the 
chance to ask my questions. Wanting some normality 
for Renesmee, I’d insisted on taking her home to our 
cottage at bedtime. Jacob was more comfortable in 
his wolf form at the moment; the stress was easier 
dealt with when he felt ready for a fight. I wished that 
I could feel the same, could feel ready. He ran in the 
woods, on guard again. 

After she was deeply under, I put Renesmee in her 
bed and then went to the front room to ask my 
questions of Edward. The ones I was able to ask, at 

641 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



any rate; one of the most difficult of problems was the 
idea of trying to hide anything from him, even with 
the advantage of my silent thoughts. 

He stood with his back to me, staring into the fire. 

“Edward, I—” 

He spun and was across the room in what seemed 
like no time at all, not even the smallest part of a 
second. I only had time to register the ferocious 
expression on his face before his lips were crushing 
against mine and his arms were locked around me 
like steel girders. 

I didn’t think of my questions again for the rest of 
that night. It didn’t take long for me to grasp the 
reason for his mood, and even less time to feel exactly 
the same way. I’d been planning on needing years just 
to somewhat organize the overwhelming passion I felt 
for him physically. And then centuries after that to 
enjoy it. If we had only a month left together... Well, I 
didn’t see how I could stand to have this end. For the 
moment I couldn’t help but be selfish. All I wanted 
was to love him as much as possible in the limited 
time given to me. 

It was hard to pull myself away from him when the 
sun came up, but we had our job to do, a job that 
might be more difficult than all the rest of our family’s 
searches put together. As soon as I let myself think of 
what was coming, I was all tension; it felt like my 
nerves were being stretched on a rack, thinner and 
thinner. 



642 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I wish there was a way to get the information we 
need from Eleazar before we tell them about Nessie,” 
Edward muttered as we hurriedly dressed in the huge 
closet that was more reminder of Alice than I wanted 
at the moment. “Just in case.” 

“But he wouldn’t understand the question to answer 
it,” I agreed. “Do you think they’ll let us explain?” 

“I don’t know.” 

I pulled Renesmee, still sleeping, from her bed and 
held her close so that her curls were pressed against 
my face; her sweet scent, so close, overpowered every 
other smell. I couldn’t waste one second of time today. 
There were answers I needed, and wasn’t sure how 
much time Edward and I would have alone today. If 
all went well with Tanya’s family, hopefully we would 
have company for an extended period. 

“Edward, will you teach me how to fight?” I asked 
him, tensed for his reaction, as he held the door for 
me. 

It was what I expected. He froze, and then his eyes 
swept over me with a deep significance, like he was 
looking at me for the first or last time. His eyes 
lingered on our daughter sleeping in my arms. 

“If it comes to a fight, there won’t be much any of us 
can do,” he hedged. I kept my voice even. “Would you 
leave me unable to defend myself?” 

He swallowed convulsively, and the door shuddered, 
hinges protesting, as his hand tightened. Then he 



643 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




nodded. “When you put it that way... I suppose we 
should get to work as soon as we can.” 

I nodded, too, and we started toward the big house. 
We didn’t hurry. I wondered what I could do that 
would have any hope of making a difference. I was a 
tiny bit special, in my own way — if a having a 
supernaturally thick skull could really be considered 
special. Was there any use that I could put that 
toward? 

“What would you say their biggest advantage is? Do 
they even have a weakness?” 

Edward didn’t have to ask to know I meant the 
Volturi. 

“Alec and Jane are their greatest offense,” he said 
emotionlessly, like we were talking of a basketball 
team. “Their defensive players rarely see any real 
action.” 

“Because Jane can burn you where you stand — 
mentally at least. What does Alec do? 

Didn’t you once say he was even more dangerous 
than Jane?” 

“Yes. In a way, he is the antidote to Jane. She makes 
you feel the worst pain imaginable. Alec, on the other 
hand, makes you feel nothing. Absolutely nothing. 
Sometimes, when the Volturi are feeling kind, they 
have Alec anesthetize someone before he is executed. 
If he has surrendered or pleased them in some other 
way.” 



644 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Anesthetic? But how is that more dangerous than 
Jane?” 

“Because he cuts off your senses altogether. No pain, 
but also no sight or sound or smell. Total sensory 
deprivation. You are utterly alone in the blackness. 
You don’t even feel it when they burn you.” 

I shivered. Was this the best we could hope for? To 
not see or feel death when it came? 

“That would make him only equally as dangerous as 
Jane,” Edward went on in the same detached voice, 
“in that they both can incapacitate you, make you 
into a helpless target. The difference between them is 
like the difference between Aro and me. Aro hears the 
mind of only one person at a time. Jane can only hurt 
the one object of her focus. I can hear everyone at the 
same time.” 

I felt cold as I saw where he was going. “And Alec can 
incapacitate us all at the same time?” I whispered. 

“Yes,” he said. “If he uses his gift against us, we will 
all stand blind and deaf until they get around to 
killing us — maybe they’ll simply burn us without 
bothering to tear us apart first. Oh, we could try to 
fight, but we’ll be more likely to hurt one another 
than we would be to hurt one of them.” 

We walked in silence for a few seconds. 

An idea was shaping itself in my head. Not very 
promising, but better than nothing. 



645 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you think Alec is a very good fighter?” I asked. 
“Aside from what he can do, I mean. If he had to fight 
without his gift. I wonder if he’s ever even tried. ...” 

Edward glanced at me sharply. “What are you 
thinking?” 

I looked straight ahead. “Well, he probably can’t do 
that to me, can he? If what he does is like Aro and 
Jane and you. Maybe... if he’s never really had to 
defend himself. . . and I learned a few tricks — ” 

“He’s been with the Volturi for centuries,” Edward cut 
me off, his voice abruptly panicked. He was probably 
seeing the same image in his head that I was: the 
Cullens standing helpless, senseless pillars on the 
killing field — all but me. I’d be the only one who could 
fight. “Yes, you’re surely immune to his power, but 
you are still a newborn, Bella. I can’t make you that 
strong a fighter in a few weeks. I’m sure he’s had 
training.” 

“Maybe, maybe not. It’s the one thing I can do that no 
one else can. Even if I can just distract him for a 
while — ” Could I last long enough to give the others a 
chance? 

“Please, Bella,” Edward said through his teeth. “Let’s 
not talk about this.” 

“Be reasonable.” 

“I will try to teach you what I can, but please don’t 
make me think about you sacrificing yourself as a 
diversion — ” He choked, and didn’t finish. 



646 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I nodded. I would keep my plans to myself, then. First 
Alec and then, if I was miraculously lucky enough to 
win, Jane. If I could only even things out — remove the 
Volturi’s overwhelming offensive advantage. Maybe 
then there was a chance.... My mind raced ahead. 
What if I was able to distract or even take them out? 
Honestly, why would either Jane or Alec ever have 
needed to learn battle skills? I couldn’t imagine 
petulant little Jane surrendering her advantage, even 
to learn. If I was able to kill them, what a difference 
that would make. 

“I have to learn everything. As much as you can 
possibly cram into my head in the next month,” I 
murmured. 

He acted as if I hadn’t spoken. 

Who next, then? I might as well have my plans in 
order so that, if I did live past attacking Alec, there 
would be no hesitation in my strike. I tried to think of 
another situation where my thick skull would give me 
an advantage. I didn’t know enough about what the 
others did. Obviously, fighters like the huge Felix 
were beyond me. I could only try to give Emmett his 
fair fight there. I didn’t know much about the rest of 
the Volturi guard, besides Demetri. . . . 

My face was perfectly smooth as I considered Demetri. 
Without a doubt, he would be a fighter. There was no 
other way he could have survived so long, always at 
the spear point of any attack. And he must always 
lead, because he was their tracker — the best tracker 
in the world, no doubt. If there had been one better, 



647 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the Volturi would have traded up. Aro didn’t surround 
himself with second best. 

If Demetri didn’t exist, then we could run. Whoever 
was left of us, in any case. My daughter, warm in my 
arms... Someone could run with her. Jacob or 
Rosalie, whoever was left. 

And... if Demetri didn’t exist, then Alice and Jasper 
could be safe forever. Is that what Alice had seen? 
That part of our family could continue? The two of 
them, at the very least. 

Could I begrudge her that? 

“Demetri...,” I said. 

“Demetri is mine,” Edward said in a hard, tight voice. 

I looked at him quickly and saw that his expression 
had turned violent. 

“Why?” I whispered. 

He didn’t answer at first. We were to the river when 
he finally murmured, “For Alice. It’s the only thanks I 
can give her now for the last fifty years.” 

So his thoughts were in line with mine. 

I heard Jacob’s heavy paws thudding against the 
frozen ground. In seconds, he was pacing beside me, 
his dark eyes focused on Renesmee. 

I nodded to him once, then returned to my questions. 
There was so little time. 



648 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Edward, why do you think Alice told us to ask 
Eleazar about the Volturi? Has he been in Italy 
recently or something? What could he know?” 

“Eleazar knows everything when it comes to the 
Volturi. I forgot you didn’t know. He used to be one of 
them.” 

I hissed involuntarily. Jacob growled beside me. 

“What?” I demanded, in my head picturing the 
beautiful dark-haired man at our wedding wrapped in 
a long, ashy cloak. 

Edward’s face was softer now — he smiled a little. 
“Eleazar is a very gentle person. He wasn’t entirely 
happy with the Volturi, but he respected the law and 
its need to be upheld. He felt he was working toward 
the greater good. He doesn’t regret his time with 
them. But when he found Carmen, he found his place 
in this world. They are very similar people, both very 
compassionate for vampires.” He smiled again. “They 
met Tanya and her sisters, and they never looked 
back. They are well suited to this lifestyle. If they’d 
never found Tanya, I imagine they would have 
eventually discovered a way to live without human 
blood on their own.” 

The pictures in my head were jarring. I couldn’t make 
them match up. A compassionate Volturi soldier? 

Edward glanced at Jacob and answered a silent 
question. “No, he wasn’t one of their warriors, so to 
speak. He had a gift they found convenient.” 



649 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob must have asked the obvious follow-up 
question. 

“He has an instinctive feel for the gifts of others — the 
extra abilities that some vampires have,” Edward told 
him. “He could give Aro a general idea of what any 
given vampire was capable of just by being in 
proximity with him or her. This was helpful when the 
Volturi went into battle. He could warn them if 
someone in the opposing coven had a skill that might 
give them some trouble. That was rare; it takes quite 
a skill to even inconvenience the Volturi for a 
moment. More often, the warning would give Aro the 
chance to save someone who might be useful to him. 
Eleazar’s gift works even with humans, to an extent. 
He has to really concentrate with humans, though, 
because the latent ability is so nebulous. Aro would 
have him test the people who wanted to join, to see if 
they had any potential. Aro was sorry to see him go.” 

“They let him go?” I asked. “Just like that?” 

His smile was darker now, a little twisted. “The 
Volturi aren’t supposed to be the villains, the way 
they seem to you. They are the foundation of our 
peace and civilization. Each member of the guard 
chooses to serve them. It’s quite prestigious; they all 
are proud to be there, not forced to be there.” 

I scowled at the ground. 

“They’re only alleged to be heinous and evil by the 
criminals, Bella.” 

“We’re not criminals.” 



650 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob huffed in agreement. 



“They don’t know that.” 

“Do you really think we can make them stop and 
listen?” 

Edward hesitated just the tiniest moment and then 
shrugged. “If we find enough friends to stand beside 
us. Maybe.” 

If. I suddenly felt the urgency of what we had before 
us today. Edward and I both started to move faster, 
breaking into a run. Jacob caught up quickly. 

“Tanya shouldn’t be too much longer,” Edward said. 
“We need to be ready.” 

How to be ready, though? We arranged and 
rearranged, thought and rethought. Renesmee in full 
view? Or hidden at first? Jacob in the room? Or 
outside? He’d told his pack to stay close but invisible. 
Should he do the same? 

In the end, Renesmee, Jacob — in his human form 
again — and I waited around the corner from the front 
door in the dining room, sitting at the big polished 
table. Jacob let me hold Renesmee; he wanted space 
in case he had to phase quickly. Though I was glad to 
have her in my arms, it made me feel useless. It 
reminded me that in a fight with mature vampires, I 
was no more than an easy target; I didn’t need my 
hands free. 

I tried to remember Tanya, Kate, Carmen, and Eleazar 
from the wedding. Their faces were murky in my ill-lit 
memories. I only knew they were beautiful, two 

651 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




blondes and two brunettes. I couldn’t remember if 
there was any kindness in their eyes. Edward leaned 
motionlessly against the back window wall, staring 
toward the front door. It didn’t look like he was seeing 
the room in front of him. We listened to the cars 
zooming past out on the freeway, none of them 
slowing. Renesmee nestled into my neck, her hand 
against my cheek but no images in my head. She 
didn’t have pictures for her feelings now. 

“What if they don’t like me?” she whispered, and all 
our eyes flashed to her face. 

“Of course they’ll — ,” Jacob started to say, but I 
silenced him with a look. 

“They don’t understand you, Renesmee, because 
they’ve never met anyone like you,” I told her, not 
wanting to lie to her with promises that might not 
come true. “Getting them to understand is the 
problem.” 

She sighed, and in my head flashed pictures of all of 
us in one quick burst. Vampire, human, werewolf. 

She fit nowhere. 

“You’re special, that’s not a bad thing.” 

She shook her head in disagreement. She thought of 
our strained faces and said, “This is my fault.” 

“No,” Jacob, Edward, and I all said at exactly the 
same time, but before we could argue further, we 
heard the sound we’d been waiting for: the slowing of 
an engine on the freeway, the tires moving from 
pavement to soft dirt. 



652 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward darted around the corner to stand waiting by 
the door. Renesmee hid in my hair. Jacob and I 
stared at each other across the table, desperation on 
our faces. The car moved quickly through the woods, 
faster than Charlie or Sue drove. We heard it pull into 
the meadow and stop by the front porch. Four doors 
opened and closed. They didn’t speak as they 
approached the door. Edward opened it before they 
could knock. 

“Edward!” a female voice enthused. 

“Hello, Tanya. Kate, Eleazar, Carmen.” 

Three murmured hellos. 

“Carlisle said he needed to talk to us right away,” the 
first voice said, Tanya. I could hear that they all were 
still outside. I imagined Edward in the doorway, 
blocking their entrance. “What’s the problem? Trouble 
with the werewolves?” 

Jacob rolled his eyes. 

“No,” Edward said. “Our truce with the werewolves is 
stronger than ever.” 

A woman chuckled. 

“Aren’t you going to invite us in?” Tanya asked. And 
then she continued without waiting for an answer. 
“Where’s Carlisle?” 

“Carlisle had to leave.” 

There was a short silence. 

“What’s going on, Edward?” Tanya demanded. 



653 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“If you could give me the benefit of the doubt for just 
a few minutes,” he answered. “I have something 
difficult to explain, and I’ll need you to be open- 
minded until you understand.” 

“Is Carlisle all right?” a male voice asked anxiously. 
Eleazar. 

“None of us is all right, Eleazar,” Edward said, and 
then he patted something, maybe Eleazar’s shoulder. 
“But physically, Carlisle is fine.” 

“Physically?” Tanya asked sharply. “What do you 
mean?” 

“I mean that my entire family is in very grave danger. 
But before I explain, I ask for your promise. Listen to 
everything I say before you react. I am begging you to 
hear me out.” 

A longer silence greeted his request. Through the 
strained hush, Jacob and I stared wordlessly at each 
other. His russet lips paled. 

“We’re listening,” Tanya finally said. “We will hear it 
all before we judge.” 

“Thank you, Tanya,” Edward said fervently. “We 
wouldn’t involve you in this if we had any other 
choice.” 

Edward moved. We heard four sets of footsteps walk 
through the doorway. Someone sniffed. “I knew those 
werewolves were involved,” Tanya muttered. 

“Yes, and they’re on our side. Again.” 



654 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The reminder silenced Tanya. 



“Where’s your Bella?” one of the other female voices 
asked. “How is she?” 

“She’ll join us shortly. She’s well, thank you. She’s 
taken to immortality with amazing finesse.” 

“Tell us about the danger, Edward,” Tanya said 
quietly. “We’ll listen, and we’ll be on your side, where 
we belong.” 

Edward took a deep breath. “I’d like you to witness for 
yourselves first. Listen — in the other room. What do 
you hear?” 

It was quiet, and then there was movement. 

“Just listen first, please,” Edward said. 

“A werewolf, I assume. I can hear his heart,” Tanya 
said. 

“What else?” Edward asked. 

There was a pause. 

“What is that thrumming?” Kate or Carmen asked. “Is 
that... some kind of a bird?” 

“No, but remember what you’re hearing. Now, what do 
you smell? Besides the werewolf.” 

“Is there a human here?” Eleazar whispered. 

“No,” Tanya disagreed. “It’s not human... but... closer 
to human than the rest of the scents here. What is 
that, Edward? I don’t think I’ve ever smelled that 
fragrance before.” 

655 I P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You most certainly have not, Tanya. Please, please 
remember that this is something entirely new to you. 
Throw away your preconceived notions.” 

“I promised you I would listen, Edward.” 

“All right, then. Bella? Bring out Renesmee, please.” 

My legs felt strangely numb, but I knew that feeling 
was all in my head. I forced myself not to hold back, 
not to move sluggishly, as I got to my feet and walked 
the few short feet to the corner. The heat from Jacob’s 
body flamed close behind me as he shadowed my 
steps. 

I took one step into the bigger room and then froze, 
unable to force myself farther forward. Renesmee took 
a deep breath and then peeped out from under my 
hair, her little shoulders tight, expecting a rebuff. 

I thought I’d prepared myself for their reaction. For 
accusations, for shouting, for the motionlessness of 
deep stress. 

Tanya skittered back four steps, her strawberry curls 
quivering, like a human confronted by a venomous 
snake. Kate jumped back all the way to the front door 
and braced herself against the wall there. A shocked 
hiss came from between her clenched teeth. Eleazar 
threw himself in front of Carmen in a protective 
crouch. 

“Oh please,” I heard Jacob complain under his 
breath. 

Edward put his arm around Renesmee and me. “You 
promised to listen,” he reminded them. 

656 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Some things cannot be heard!” Tanya exclaimed. 
“How could you, Edward? Do you not know what this 
means?” 

“We have to get out of here,” Kate said anxiously, her 
hand on the doorknob. 

“Edward ...” Eleazar seemed beyond words. 

“Wait,” Edward said, his voice harder now. 

“Remember what you hear, what you smell. Renesmee 
is not what you think she is.” 

“There are no exceptions to this rule, Edward,” Tanya 
snapped back. 

“Tanya,” Edward said sharply, “you can hear her 
heartbeat! Stop and think about what that means.” 

“Her heartbeat?” Carmen whispered, peering around 
Eleazar’s shoulder. 

“She’s not a full vampire child,” Edward answered, 
directing his attention toward Carmen’s less hostile 
expression. “She is half-human.” 

The four vampires stared at him like he was speaking 
a language none of them knew. 

“Hear me.” Edward’s voice shifted into a smooth 
velvet tone of persuasion. “Renesmee is one of a kind. 

I am her father. Not her creator — her biological 
father.” 

Tanya’s head was shaking, just a tiny movement. She 
didn’t seem aware of it. 



657 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Edward, you can’t expect us to — Eleazar started to 
say. 

“Tell me another explanation that fits, Eleazar. You 
can feel the warmth of her body in the air. Blood runs 
in her veins, Eleazar. You can smell it.” 

“How?” Kate breathed. 

“Bella is her biological mother,” Edward told her. “She 
conceived, carried, and gave birth to Renesmee while 
she was still human. It nearly killed her. I was hard- 
pressed to get enough venom into her heart to save 
her.” 

“I’ve never heard of such a thing,” Eleazar said. His 
shoulders were still stiff, his expression cold. 

“Physical relationships between vampires and 
humans are not common,” Edward answered, a bit of 
dark humor in his tone now. “Human survivors of 
such trysts are even less common. Wouldn’t you 
agree, cousins?” 

Both Kate and Tanya scowled at him. 

“Come now, Eleazar. Surely you can see the 
resemblance.” 

It was Carmen who responded to Edward’s words. 

She stepped around Eleazar, ignoring his half- 
articulated warning, and walked carefully to stand 
right in front of me. She leaned down slightly, looking 
carefully into Renesmee ’s face. 

“You seem to have your mother’s eyes,” she said in a 
low, calm voice, “but your father’s face.” And then, as 



658 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




if she could not help herself, she smiled at Renesmee. 
Renesmee’s answering smile was dazzling. She 
touched my face without looking away from Carmen. 
She imagined touching Carmen’s face, wondering if 
that was okay. 

“Do you mind if Renesmee tells you about it herself?” 

I asked Carmen. I was still too stressed to speak 
above a whisper. “She has a gift for explaining 
things.” 

Carmen was still smiling at Renesmee. “Do you 
speak, little one?” 

“Yes,” Renesmee answered in her trilling high 
soprano. All of Tanya’s family flinched at the sound of 
her voice except for Carmen. “But I can show you 
more than I can tell you.” 

She placed her little dimpled hand on Carmen’s 
cheek. 

Carmen stiffened like an electric shock had run 
through her. Eleazar was at her side in an instant, 
his hands on her shoulders as if to yank her away. 

“Wait,” Carmen said breathlessly, her unblinking eyes 
locked on Renesmee’s. Renesmee “showed” Carmen 
her explanation for a long time. Edward’s face was 
intent as he watched with Carmen, and I wished so 
much that I could hear what he heard, too. Jacob 
shifted his weight impatiently behind me, and I knew 
he was wishing the same. 

“What’s Nessie showing her?” he grumbled under his 
breath. 



659 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Everything,” Edward murmured. 

Another minute passed, and Renesmee dropped her 
hand from Carmen’s face. She smiled winningly at the 
stunned vampire. 

“She really is your daughter, isn’t she?” Carmen 
breathed, switching her wide topaz eyes to Edward’s 
face. “Such a vivid gift! It could only have come from a 
very gifted father.” 

“Do you believe what she showed you?” Edward 
asked, his expression intense. 

“Without a doubt,” Carmen said simply. 

Eleazar’s face was rigid with distress. “Carmen!” 

Carmen took his hands into her own and squeezed 
them. “Impossible as it seems, Edward has told you 
nothing but truth. Let the child show you.” 

Carmen nudged Eleazar closer to me and then 
nodded at Renesmee. “Show him, mi querida.” 

Renesmee grinned, clearly delighted with Carmen’s 
acceptance, and touched Eleazar lightly on the 
forehead. 

“Ay caray!” he spit, and jerked away from her. 

“What did she do to you?” Tanya demanded, coming 
closer warily. Kate crept forward, too. 

“She’s just trying to show you her side of the story,” 
Carmen told him in a soothing voice. 



660 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Renesmee frowned impatiently. “Watch, please,” she 
commanded Eleazar. She stretched her hand out to 
him and then left a few inches between her fingers 
and his face, waiting. Eleazar eyed her suspiciously 
and then glanced at Carmen for help. She nodded 
encouragingly. Eleazar took a deep breath and then 
leaned closer until his forehead touched her hand 
again. 

He shuddered when it began but held still this time, 
his eyes closed in concentration. 

“Ahh,” he sighed when his eyes reopened a few 
minutes later. “I see.” 

Renesmee smiled at him. He hesitated, then smiled a 
slightly unwilling smile in response. 

“Eleazar?” Tanya asked. 

“It’s all true, Tanya. This is no immortal child. She’s 
half-human. Come. See for yourself.” 

In silence, Tanya took her turn standing warily before 
me, and then Kate, both showing shock as that first 
image hit them with Renesmee’s touch. But then, just 
like Carmen and Eleazar, they seemed completely 
won over as soon as it was done. I shot a glance at 
Edward’s smooth face, wondering if it could really be 
so easy. His golden eyes were clear, unshadowed. 
There was no deception in this, then. 

“Thank you for listening,” he said quietly. 

“But there is the grave danger you warned us of,” 
Tanya said. “Not directly from this child, I see, but 



661 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




surely from the Volturi, then. How did they find out 
about her? When are they coming?” 

I was not surprised at her quick understanding. After 
all, what could possibly be a threat to a family as 
strong as mine? Only the Volturi. 

“When Bella saw Irina that day in the mountains,” 
Edward explained, “she had Renesmee with her.” 

Kate hissed, her eyes narrowing to slits. “Irina did 
this? To you? To Carlisle? Irina? ” 

“No,” Tanya whispered. “Someone else . . .” 

“Alice saw her go to them,” Edward said. I wondered if 
the others noticed the way he winced just slightly 
when he spoke Alice’s name. 

“How could she do this thing?” Eleazar asked of no 
one. 

“Imagine if you had seen Renesmee only from a 
distance. If you had not waited for our explanation.” 

Tanya’s eyes tightened. “No matter what she 
thought... You are our family.” 

“There’s nothing we can do about Irina’s choice now. 
It’s too late. Alice gave us a month.” 

Both Tanya’s and Eleazar’s heads cocked to one side. 
Kate’s brow furrowed. 

“So long?” Eleazar asked. 

“They are all coming. That must take some 
preparation.” 



662 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Eleazar gasped. “The entire guard?” 

“Not just the guard,” Edward said, his jaw straining 
tight. “Aro, Caius, Marcus. Even the wives.” 

Shock glazed over all their eyes. 

“Impossible,” Eleazar said blankly. 

“I would have said the same two days ago,” Edward 
said. 

Eleazar scowled, and when he spoke it was nearly a 
growl. “But that doesn’t make any sense. Why would 
they put themselves and the wives in danger?” 

“It doesn’t make sense from that angle. Alice said 
there was more to this than just punishment for what 
they think we’ve done. She thought you could help 
us.” 



“More than punishment? But what else is there?” 
Eleazar started pacing, stalking toward the door and 
back again as if he were alone here, his eyebrows 
furrowed as he stared at the floor. 

“Where are the others, Edward? Carlisle and Alice 
and the rest?” Tanya asked. Edward’s hesitation was 
almost unnoticeable. He answered only part of her 
question. 

“Looking for friends who might help us.” 

Tanya leaned toward him, holding her hands out in 
front of her. “Edward, no matter how many friends 
you gather, we can’t help you win. We can only die 
with you. You must know that. Of course, perhaps 



663 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




the four of us deserve that after what Irina has done 
now, after how we’ve failed you in the past — for her 
sake that time as well.” 

Edward shook his head quickly. “We’re not asking 
you to fight and die with us, Tanya. You know Carlisle 
would never ask for that.” 

“Then what, Edward?” 

“We’re just looking for witnesses. If we can make 
them pause, just for a moment. If they would let us 
explain ...” He touched Renesmee’s cheek; she 
grabbed his hand and held it pressed against her 
skin. “It’s difficult to doubt our story when you see it 
for yourself.” 

Tanya nodded slowly. “Do you think her past will 
matter to them so much?” 

“Only as it foreshadows her future. The point of the 
restriction was to protect us from exposure, from the 
excesses of children who could not be tamed.” 

“I’m not dangerous at all,” Renesmee interjected. I 
listened to her high, clear voice with new ears, 
imagining how she sounded to the others. “I never 
hurt Grandpa or Sue or Billy. I love humans. And 
wolf-people like my Jacob.” She dropped Edward’s 
hand to reach back and pat Jacob’s arm. 

Tanya and Kate exchanged a quick glance. 

“If Irina had not come so soon,” Edward mused, “we 
could have avoided all of this. Renesmee grows at an 
unprecedented rate. By the time the month is past, 
she’ll have gained another half year of development.” 

664 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, that is something we can certainly witness,” 
Carmen said in a decided tone. 

“Well be able to promise that we’ve seen her mature 
ourselves. How could the Volturi ignore such 
evidence?” 

Eleazar mumbled, “How, indeed?” but he did not look 
up, and he continued pacing as if he were paying no 
attention at all. 

“Yes, we can witness for you,” Tanya said. “Certainly 
that much. We will consider what more we might do.” 

“Tanya,” Edward protested, hearing more in her 
thoughts than there was in her words, 

“we don’t expect you to fight with us.” 

“If the Volturi won’t pause to listen to our witness, we 
cannot simply stand by,” Tanya insisted. “Of course, I 
should only speak for myself.” 

Kate snorted. “Do you really doubt me so much, 
sister?” 

Tanya smiled widely at her. “It is a suicide mission, 
after all.” 

Kate flashed a grin back and then shrugged 
nonchalantly. “I’m in.” 

“I, too, will do what I can to protect the child,” 

Carmen agreed. Then, as if she couldn’t resist, she 
held her arms out toward Renesmee. “May I hold you, 
bebe linda?” 



665 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Renesmee reached eagerly toward Carmen, delighted 
with her new friend. Carmen hugged her close, 
murmuring to her in Spanish. 

It was like it had been with Charlie, and before that 
with all the Cullens. Renesmee was irresistible. What 
was it about her that drew everyone to her, that made 
them willing even to pledge their lives in her defense? 

For a moment I thought that maybe what we were 
attempting might be possible. Maybe Renesmee could 
do the impossible and win over our enemies as she 
had our friends. And then I remembered that Alice 
had left us, and my hope vanished as quickly as it 
had appeared. 



666 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





“What is the werewolves’ part in this?” Tanya asked 
then, eyeing Jacob. Jacob spoke before Edward could 
answer. “If the Volturi won’t stop to listen about 
Nessie, I mean Renesmee,” he corrected himself, 
remembering that Tanya would not understand his 
stupid nickname, “we will stop them.” 

“Very brave, child, but that would be impossible for 
more experienced fighters than you are.” 

“You don’t know what we can do.” 

Tanya shrugged. “It is your own life, certainly, to 
spend as you choose.” 

Jacob’s eyes flickered to Renesmee — still in Carmen’s 
arms with Kate hovering over them — and it was easy 
to read the longing in them. 

“She is special, that little one,” Tanya mused. “Hard 
to resist.” 

“A very talented family,” Eleazar murmured as he 
paced. His tempo was increasing; he flashed from the 
door to Carmen and back again every second. “A 
mind reader for a father, a shield for a mother, and 
then whatever magic this extraordinary child has 
bewitched us with. I wonder if there is a name for 
what she does, or if it is the norm for a vampire 
hybrid. As if such a thing could ever be considered 
normal! A vampire hybrid, indeed!” 



667 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“Excuse me,” Edward said in a stunned voice. He 
reached out and caught Eleazar’s shoulder as he was 
about to turn again for the door. “What did you just 
call my wife?” 

Eleazar looked at Edward curiously, his manic pacing 
forgotten for the moment. “A shield, I think. She’s 
blocking me now, so I can’t be sure.” 

I stared at Eleazar, my brows furrowing in confusion. 
Shield? What did he mean about my blocking him? I 
was standing right here beside him, not defensive in 
any way. 

“A shield?” Edward repeated, bewildered. 

“Come now, Edward! If I can’t get a read on her, I 
doubt you can, either. Can you hear her thoughts 
right now?” Eleazar asked. 

“No,” Edward murmured. “But I’ve never been able to 
do that. Even when she was human.” 

“Never?” Eleazar blinked. “Interesting. That would 
indicate a rather powerful latent talent, if it was 
manifesting so clearly even before the transformation. 

I can’t feel a way through her shield to get a sense of 
it at all. Yet she must be raw still — she’s only a few 
months old.” The look he gave Edward now was 
almost exasperated. “And apparently completely 
unaware of what she’s doing. Totally unconscious. 
Ironic. Aro sent me all over the world searching for 
such anomalies, and you simply stumble across it by 
accident and don’t even realize what you have.” 
Eleazar shook his head in disbelief. I frowned. “What 
are you talking about? How can I be a shield? What 

668 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




does that even mean?” All I could picture in my head 
was a ridiculous medieval suit of armor. Eleazar 
leaned his head to one side as he examined me. “I 
suppose we were overly formal about it in the guard. 
In truth, categorizing talents is a subjective, 
haphazard business; every talent is unique, never 
exactly the same thing twice. But you, Bella, are fairly 
easy to classify. Talents that are purely defensive, 
that protect some aspect of the bearer, are always 
called shields. Have you ever tested your abilities? 
Blocked anyone besides me and your mate?” 

It took me few seconds, despite how quickly my new 
brain worked, to organize my answer. 

“It only works with certain things,” I told him. “My 
head is sort of... private. But it doesn’t stop Jasper 
from being able to mess with my mood or Alice from 
seeing my future.” 

“Purely a mental defense.” Eleazar nodded to himself. 
“Limited, but strong.” 

“Aro couldn’t hear her,” Edward interjected. “Though 
she was human when they met.” 

Eleazar ’s eyes widened. 

“Jane tried to hurt me, but she couldn’t,” I said. 
“Edward thinks Demetri can’t find me, and that Alec 
can’t bother me, either. Is that good?” 

Eleazar, still gaping, nodded. “Quite.” 

“A shield!” Edward said, deep satisfaction saturating 
his tone. “I never thought of it that way. The only one 



669 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’ve ever met before was Renata, and what she did 
was so different.” 

Eleazar had recovered slightly. “Yes, no talent ever 
manifests in precisely the same way, because no one 
ever thinks in exactly the same way.” 

“Who’s Renata? What does she do?” I asked. 
Renesmee was interested, too, leaning away from 
Carmen so that she could see around Kate. 

“Renata is Aro’s personal bodyguard,” Eleazar told 
me. “A very practical kind of shield, and a very strong 
one.” 

I vaguely remembered a small crowd of vampires 
hovering close to Aro in his macabre tower, some 
male, some female. I couldn’t remember the women’s 
faces in the uncomfortable, terrifying memory. One 
must have been Renata. 

“I wonder...,” Eleazar mused. “You see, Renata is a 
powerful shield against a physical attack. If someone 
approaches her — or Aro, as she is always close beside 
him in a hostile situation — they find themselves... 
diverted. There’s a force around her that repels, 
though it’s almost unnoticeable. You simply find 
yourself going a different direction than you planned, 
with a confused memory as to why you wanted to go 
that other way in the first place. She can project her 
shield several meters out from herself. She also 
protects Caius and Marcus, too, when they have a 
need, but Aro is her priority. 

“What she does isn’t actually physical, though. Like 
the vast majority of our gifts, it takes place inside the 



670 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




mind. If she tried to keep you back, I wonder who 
would win?” 

He shook his head. “I’ve never heard of Aro’s or Jane’s 
gifts being thwarted.” 

“Momma, you’re special,” Renesmee told me without 
any surprise, like she was commenting on the color of 
my clothes. 

I felt disoriented. Didn’t I already know my gift? I had 
my super- self-control that had allowed me to skip 
right over the horrifying newborn year. Vampires only 
had one extra ability at most, right? 

Or had Edward been correct in the beginning? Before 
Carlisle had suggested that my self-control could be 
something beyond the natural, Edward had thought 
my restraint was just a product of good preparation — 
focus and attitude, he’d declared. Which one had 
been right? Was there more I could do? A name and a 
category for what I was? 

“Can you project?” Kate asked interestedly. 

“Project?” I asked. 

“Push it out from yourself,” Kate explained. “Shield 
someone besides yourself.” 

“I don’t know. I’ve never tried. I didn’t know I should 
do that.” 

“Oh, you might not be able to,” Kate said quickly. 
“Heavens knows I’ve been working on it for centuries 
and the best I can do is run a current over my skin.” 



671 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at her, mystified. 

“Kate’s got an offensive skill,” Edward said. “Sort of 
like Jane.” 

I flinched away from Kate automatically, and she 
laughed. 

“I’m not sadistic about it,” she assured me. “It’s just 
something that comes in handy during a fight.” 

Kate’s words were sinking in, beginning to make 
connections in my mind. Shield someone besides 
yourself, she’d said. As if there were some way for me 
to include another person in my strange, quirky silent 
head. 

I remembered Edward cringing on the ancient stones 
of the Volturi castle turret. Though this was a human 
memory, it was sharper, more painful than most of 
the others — like it had been branded into the tissues 
of my brain. 

What if I could stop that from happening ever again? 
What if I could protect him? 

Protect Renesmee? What if there was even the faintest 
glimmer of a possibility that I could shield them, too? 

“You have to teach me what to do!” I insisted, 
unthinkingly grabbing Kate’s arm. “You have to show 
me how!” 

Kate winced at my grip. “Maybe — if you stop trying to 
crush my radius.” 

“Oops! Sorry!” 



672 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’re shielding, all right,” Kate said. “That move 
should have about shocked your arm off. You didn’t 
feel anything just now?” 

“That wasn’t really necessary, Kate. She didn’t mean 
any harm,” Edward muttered under his breath. 
Neither of us paid attention to him. 

“No, I didn’t feel anything. Were you doing your 
electric current thing?” 

“I was. Hmm. I’ve never met anyone who couldn’t feel 
it, immortal or otherwise.” 

“You said you project it? On your skin?” 

Kate nodded. “It used to be just in my palms. Kind of 
like Aro.” 

“Or Renesmee,” Edward interjected. 

“But after a lot of practice, I can radiate the current 
all over my body. It’s a good defense. Anyone who 
tries to touch me drops like a human that’s been 
Tasered. It only downs him for a second, but that’s 
long enough.” 

I was only half-listening to Kate, my thoughts racing 
around the idea that I might be able to protect my 
little family if I could just learn fast enough. I wished 
fervently that I might be good at this projecting thing, 
too, like I was somehow mysteriously good at all the 
other aspects of being a vampire. My human life had 
not prepared me for things that came naturally, and I 
couldn’t make myself trust this aptitude to last. It felt 
like I had never wanted anything so badly before this: 
to be able to protect what I loved. 

673 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Because I was so preoccupied, I didn’t notice the 
silent exchange going on between Edward and Eleazar 
until it became a spoken conversation. 

“Can you think of even one exception, though?” 
Edward asked. 

I looked over to make sense of his comment and 
realized that everyone else was already staring at the 
two men. They were leaning toward each other 
intently, Edward’s expression tight with suspicion, 
Eleazar’s unhappy and reluctant. 

“I don’t want to think of them that way,” Eleazar said 
through his teeth. I was surprised at the sudden 
change in the atmosphere. 

“If you’re right — ,” Eleazar began again. 

Edward cut him off. “The thought was yours, not 
mine.” 

“If I’m right... I can’t even grasp what that would 
mean. It would change everything about the world 
we’ve created. It would change the meaning of my life. 
What I have been a part of.” 

“Your intentions were always the best, Eleazar.” 

“Would that even matter? What have I done? How 
many lives ...” 

Tanya put her hand on Eleazar’s shoulder in a 
comforting gesture. “What did we miss, my friend? I 
want to know so that I can argue with these thoughts. 
You’ve never done anything worth castigating yourself 
this way.” 



674 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh, haven’t I?” Eleazar muttered. Then he shrugged 
out from under her hand and began his pacing again, 
faster even than before. 

Tanya watched him for half a second and then 
focused on Edward. “Explain.” 

Edward nodded, his tense eyes following Eleazar as 
he spoke. “He was trying to understand why so many 
of the Volturi would come to punish us. It’s not the 
way they do things. Certainly, we are the biggest 
mature coven they’ve dealt with, but in the past other 
covens have joined to protect themselves, and they 
never presented much of a challenge despite their 
numbers. We are more closely bonded, and that’s a 
factor, but not a huge one. 

“He was remembering other times that covens have 
been punished, for one thing or the other, and a 
pattern occurred to him. It was a pattern that the rest 
of the guard would never have noticed, since Eleazar 
was the one passing the pertinent intelligence 
privately to Aro. A pattern that only repeated every 
other century or so.” 

“What was this pattern?” Carmen asked, watching 
Eleazar as Edward was. 

“Aro does not often personally attend a punishing 
expedition,” Edward said. “But in the past, when Aro 
wanted something in particular, it was never long 
before evidence turned up proving that this coven or 
that coven had committed some unpardonable crime. 
The ancients would decide to go along to watch the 
guard administer justice. And then, once the coven 
was all but destroyed, Aro would grant a pardon to 
675 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




one member whose thoughts, he would claim, were 
particularly repentant. Always, it would turn out that 
this vampire had the gift Aro had admired. Always, 
this person was given a place with the guard. The 
gifted vampire was won over quickly, always so 
grateful for the honor. There were no exceptions.” 

“It must be a heady thing to be chosen,” Kate 
suggested. 

“Ha!” Eleazar snarled, still in motion. 

“There is one among the guard,” Edward said, 
explaining Eleazar’s angry reaction. “Her name is 
Chelsea. She has influence over the emotional ties 
between people. She can both loosen and secure 
these ties. She could make someone feel bonded to 
the Volturi, to want to belong, to want to please them. 



Eleazar came to an abrupt halt. “We all understood 
why Chelsea was important. In a fight, if we could 
separate allegiances between allied covens, we could 
defeat them that much more easily. If we could 
distance the innocent members of a coven emotionally 
from the guilty, justice could be done without 
unnecessary brutality — the guilty could be punished 
without interference, and the innocent could be 
spared. Otherwise, it was impossible to keep the 
coven from fighting as a whole. So Chelsea would 
break the ties that bound them together. It seemed a 
great kindness to me, evidence of Aro’s mercy. I did 
suspect that Chelsea kept our own band more tightly 
knit, but that, too, was a good thing. It made us more 
effective. It helped us coexist more easily.” 



676 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




This clarified old memories for me. It had not made 
sense to me before how the guard obeyed their 
masters so gladly, with almost lover-like devotion. 

“How strong is her gift?” Tanya asked with an edge to 
her voice. Her gaze quickly touched on each member 
of her family. 

Eleazar shrugged. “I was able to leave with Carmen.” 
And then he shook his head. “But anything weaker 
than the bond between partners is in danger. In a 
normal coven, at least. Those are weaker bonds than 
those in our family, though. Abstaining from human 
blood makes us more civilized — lets us form true 
bonds of love. I doubt she could turn our allegiances, 
Tanya.” 

Tanya nodded, seeming reassured, while Eleazar 
continued with his analysis. 

“I could only think that the reason Aro had decided to 
come himself, to bring so many with him, is because 
his goal is not punishment but acquisition,” Eleazar 
said. “He needs to be there to control the situation. 
But he needs the entire guard for protection from 
such a large, gifted coven. On the other hand, that 
leaves the other ancients unprotected in Volterra. Too 
risky — someone might try to take advantage. So they 
all come together. How else could he be sure to 
preserve the gifts that he wants? He must want them 
very badly,” Eleazar mused. 

Edward’s voice was low as a breath. “From what I saw 
of his thoughts last spring, Aro’s never wanted 
anything more than he wants Alice.” 



677 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt my mouth fall open, remembering the 
nightmarish pictures I had imagined long ago: 

Edward and Alice in black cloaks with bloodred eyes, 
their faces cold and remote as they stood close as 
shadows, Aro’s hands on theirs.... Had Alice seen this 
more recently? Had she seen Chelsea trying to strip 
away her love for us, to bind her to Aro and Caius 
and Marcus? 

“Is that why Alice left?” I asked, my voice breaking on 
her name. Edward put his hand against my cheek. “I 
think it must be. To keep Aro from gaining the thing 
he wants most of all. To keep her power out of his 
hands.” 

I heard Tanya and Kate murmuring in disturbed 
voices and remembered that they hadn’t known about 
Alice. 

“He wants you, too,” I whispered. 

Edward shrugged, his face suddenly a little too 
composed. “Not nearly as much. I can’t really give him 
anything more than he already has. And of course 
that’s dependent on his finding a way to force me to 
do his will. He knows me, and he knows how unlikely 
that is.” He raised one eyebrow sardonically. 

Eleazar frowned at Edward’s nonchalance. “He also 
knows your weaknesses,” Eleazar pointed out, and 
then he looked at me. 

“It’s nothing we need to discuss now,” Edward said 
quickly. 



678 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Eleazar ignored the hint and continued. “He probably 
wants your mate, too, regardless. He must have been 
intrigued by a talent that could defy him in its human 
incarnation.” 

Edward was uncomfortable with this topic. I didn’t 
like it, either. If Aro wanted me to do something — 
anything — all he had to do was threaten Edward and I 
would comply. And vice versa. 

Was death the lesser concern? Was it really capture 
we should fear? 

Edward changed the subject. “I think the Volturi were 
waiting for this — for some pretext. They couldn’t know 
what form their excuse would come in, but the plan 
was already in place for when it did come. That’s why 
Alice saw their decision before Irina triggered it. The 
decision was already made, just waiting for the 
pretense of a justification.” 

“If the Volturi are abusing the trust all immortals 
have placed in them...,” Carmen murmured. 

“Does it matter?” Eleazar asked. “Who would believe 
it? And even if others could be convinced that the 
Volturi are exploiting their power, how would it make 
any difference? No one can stand against them.” 

“Though some of us are apparently insane enough to 
try,” Kate muttered. Edward shook his head. “You’re 
only here to witness, Kate. Whatever Aro’s goal, I 
don’t think he’s ready to tarnish the Volturi’s 
reputation for it. If we can take away his argument 
against us, hell be forced to leave us in peace.” 



679 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course,” Tanya murmured. 

No one looked convinced. For a few long minutes, 
nobody said anything. Then I heard the sound of tires 
turning off the highway pavement onto the Cullens’ 
dirt drive. 

“Oh crap, Charlie,” I muttered. “Maybe the Denalis 
could hang out upstairs until — ” 

“No,” Edward said in a distant voice. His eyes were far 
away, staring blankly at the door. “It’s not your 
father.” His gaze focused on me. “Alice sent Peter and 
Charlotte, after all. Time to get ready for the next 
round.” 



680 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





The Cullens’ enormous house was more crowded with 
guests than anyone would assume could possibly be 
comfortable. It only worked out because none of the 
visitors slept. Mealtimes were dicey, though. Our 
company cooperated as best they could. They gave 
Forks and La Push a wide berth, only hunting out of 
state; Edward was a gracious host, lending out his 
cars as needed without so much as a wince. The 
compromise made me very uncomfortable, though I 
tried to tell myself that they’d all be hunting 
somewhere in the world, regardless. 

Jacob was even more upset. The werewolves existed 
to prevent the loss of human life, and here was 
rampant murder being condoned barely outside the 
packs’ borders. But under these circumstances, with 
Renesmee in acute danger, he kept his mouth shut 
and glared at the floor rather than the vampires. 

I was amazed at the easy acceptance the visiting 
vampires had for Jacob; the problems Edward had 
anticipated had never materialized. Jacob seemed 
more or less invisible to them, not quite a person, but 
also not food, either. They treated him the way people 
who are not animal-lovers treat the pets of their 
friends. 

Leah, Seth, Quil, and Embry were assigned to run 
with Sam for now, and Jacob would have happily 
joined them, except that he couldn’t stand to be away 
from Renesmee, and Renesmee was busy fascinating 

681 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



the strange collection of Carlisle’s friends. We’d 
replayed the scene of Renesmee’s introduction to the 
Denali coven a half dozen times. First for Peter and 
Charlotte, whom Alice and Jasper had sent our way 
without giving them any explanation at all; like most 
people who knew Alice, they trusted her instructions 
despite the lack of information. Alice had told them 
nothing about which direction she and Jasper were 
heading. She’d made no promise to ever see them 
again in the future. 

Neither Peter nor Charlotte had ever seen an 
immortal child. Though they knew the rule, their 
negative reaction was not as powerful as the Denali 
vampires’ had been at first. Curiosity had driven them 
to allow Renesmee’s “explanation.” And that was it. 
Now they were as committed to witnessing as Tanya’s 
family. 

Carlisle had sent friends from Ireland and Egypt. 

The Irish clan arrived first, and they were surprisingly 
easy to convince. Siobhan — a woman of immense 
presence whose huge body was both beautiful and 
mesmerizing as it moved in smooth undulations — was 
the leader, but she and her hard-faced mate, Liam, 
were long used to trusting the judgment of their 
newest coven member. Little Maggie, with her bouncy 
red curls, was not physically imposing like the other 
two, but she had a gift for knowing when she was 
being lied to, and her verdicts were never contested. 
Maggie declared that Edward spoke the truth, and so 
Siobhan and Liam accepted our story absolutely 
before even touching Renesmee. 



682 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Amun and the other Egyptian vampires were another 
story. Even after two younger members of his coven, 
Benjamin and Tia, had been convinced by Renesmee’s 
explanation, Amun refused to touch her and ordered 
his coven to leave. Benjamin — an oddly cheerful 
vampire who looked barely older than a boy and 
seemed both utterly confident and utterly careless at 
the same time — persuaded Amun to stay with a few 
subtle threats about disbanding their alliance. Amun 
stayed, but continued to refuse to touch Renesmee, 
and would not allow his mate, Kebi, to touch her, 
either. It seemed an unlikely grouping — though the 
Egyptians all looked so alike, with their midnight hair 
and olive-toned pallor, that they easily could have 
passed for a biological family. Amun was the senior 
member and the outspoken leader. Kebi never strayed 
farther away from Amun than his shadow, and I 
never heard her speak a single word. Tia, Benjamin’s 
mate, was a quiet woman as well, though when she 
did speak there was great insight and gravity to 
everything she said. Still, it was Benjamin whom they 
all seemed to revolve around, as if he had some 
invisible magnetism the others depended upon for 
their balance. I saw Eleazar staring at the boy with 
wide eyes and assumed Benjamin had a talent that 
drew the others to him. 

“It’s not that,” Edward told me when we were alone 
that night. “His gift is so singular that Amun is 
terrified of losing him. Much like we had planned to 
keep Renesmee from Aro’s knowledge” — he sighed — 
“Amun has been keeping Benjamin from Aro’s 
attention. Amun created Benjamin, knowing he would 
be special.” 



683 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What can he do?” 



“Something Eleazar’s never seen before. Something 
I’ve never heard of. Something that even your shield 
would do nothing against.” He grinned his crooked 
smile at me. “He can actually influence the 
elements — earth, wind, water, and fire. True physical 
manipulation, no illusion of the mind. Benjamin’s still 
experimenting with it, and Amun tries to mold him 
into a weapon. But you see how independent 
Benjamin is. He won’t be used.” 

“You like him,” I surmised from the tone of his voice. 

“He has a very clear sense of right and wrong. I like 
his attitude.” 

Amun’s attitude was something else, and he and Kebi 
kept to themselves, though Benjamin and Tia were 
well on their way to being fast friends with both the 
Denali and the Irish covens. We hoped that Carlisle’s 
return would ease the remaining tension with Amun. 

Emmett and Rose sent individuals — any nomad 
friends of Carlisle’s that they could track down. 

Garrett came first — a tall, rangy vampire with eager 
ruby eyes and long sandy hair he kept tied back with 
a leather thong — and it was apparent immediately 
that he was an adventurer. I imagined that we could 
have presented him with any challenge and he would 
have accepted, just to test himself. He fell in quickly 
with the Denali sisters, asking endless questions 
about their unusual lifestyle. I wondered if 
vegetarianism was another challenge he would try, 
just to see if he could do it. 



684 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Mary and Randall also came — friends already, though 
they did not travel together. They listened to 
Renesmee’s story and stayed to witness like the 
others. Like the Denalis, they considered what they 
would do if the Volturi did not pause for explanations. 
All three of the nomads toyed with the idea of 
standing with us. 

Of course, Jacob got more surly with each new 
addition. He kept his distance when he could, and 
when he couldn’t he grumbled to Renesmee that 
someone was going to have to provide an index if 
anyone expected him to keep all the new 
bloodsuckers’ names straight.* 

Carlisle and Esme returned a week after they had 
gone, Emmett and Rosalie just a few days later, and 
all of us felt better when they were home. Carlisle 
brought one more friend home with him, though 
friend might have been the wrong term. Alistair was a 
misanthropic English vampire who counted Carlisle 
as his closest acquaintance, though he could hardly 
stand a visit more than once a century. Alistair very 
much preferred to wander alone, and Carlisle had 
called in a lot of favors to get him here. He shunned 
all company, and it was clear he didn’t have any 
admirers in the gathered covens. The brooding dark- 
haired vampire took Carlisle at his word about 
Renesmee’s origins, refusing, like Amun, to touch her. 
Edward told Carlisle, Esme, and me that Alistair was 
afraid to be here, but more afraid of not knowing the 
outcome. He was deeply suspicious of all authority, 
and therefore naturally suspicious of the Volturi. 



685 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




What was happening now seemed to confirm all his 
fears. 



“Of course, now they’ll know I was here,” we heard 
him grumble to himself in the attic 

— his preferred spot to sulk. “No way to keep it from 
Aro at this point. Centuries on the run, that’s what 
this will mean. Everyone Carlisle’s talked to in the 
last decade will be on their list. I can’t believe I got 
myself sucked into this mess. What a fine way to treat 
your friends.” 

But if he was right about having to run from the 
Volturi, at least he had more hope of doing that than 
the rest of us. Alistair was a tracker, though not 
nearly as precise and efficient as Demetri. Alistair just 
felt an elusive pull toward whatever he was seeking. 
But that pull would be enough to tell him which 
direction to run — the opposite direction from Demetri. 

And then another pair of unexpected friends arrived — 
unexpected, because neither Carlisle nor Rosalie had 
been able to contact the Amazons. 

“Carlisle,” the taller of the two very tall feline women 
greeted him when they arrived. Both of them seemed 
as if they’d been stretched — long arms and legs, long 
fingers, long black braids, and long faces with long 
noses. They wore nothing but animal skins — hide 
vests and tight-fitting pants that laced on the sides 
with leather ties. It wasn’t just their eccentric clothes 
that made them seem wild but everything about 
them, from their restless crimson eyes to their 
sudden, darting movements. I’d never met any 
vampires less civilized. 

686 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




But Alice had sent them, and that was interesting 
news, to put it mildly. Why was Alice in South 
America? Just because she’d seen that no one else 
would be able to get in touch with the Amazons? 

“Zafrina and Senna! But where’s Kachiri?” Carlisle 
asked. “I’ve never seen you three apart.” 

“Alice told us we needed to separate,” Zafrina 
answered in the rough, deep voice that matched her 
wild appearance. “It’s uncomfortable to be away from 
each other, but Alice assured us that you needed us 
here, while she very much needed Kachiri somewhere 
else. That’s all she would tell us, except that there 
was a great hurry... ?” Zafrina’s statement trailed off 
into a question, and — with the tremor of nerves that 
never went away no matter how often I did this — I 
brought Renesmee out to meet them. Despite their 
fierce appearance, they listened very calmly to our 
story, and then allowed Renesmee to prove the point. 
They were every bit as taken with Renesmee as any of 
the other vampires, but I couldn’t help worrying as I 
watched their swift, jerky movements so close beside 
her. Senna was always near Zafrina, never speaking, 
but it wasn’t the same as Amun and Kebi. Kebi’s 
manner seemed obedient; Senna and Zafrina were 
more like two limbs of one organism — Zafrina just 
happened to be the mouthpiece. The news about Alice 
was oddly comforting. Clearly, she was on some 
obscure mission of her own as she avoided whatever 
Aro had planned for her. 

Edward was thrilled to have the Amazons with us, 
because Zafrina was enormously talented; her gift 
could make a very dangerous offensive weapon. Not 

687 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




that Edward was asking for Zafrina to side with us in 
the battle, but if the Volturi did not pause when they 
saw our witnesses, perhaps they would pause for a 
different kind of scene. 

“It’s a very straightforward illusion,” Edward 
explained when it turned out that I couldn’t see 
anything, as usual. Zafrina was intrigued and 
amused by my immunity — 

something she’d never encountered before — and she 
hovered restlessly while Edward described what I was 
missing. Edward’s eyes unfocused slightly as he 
continued. “She can make most people see whatever 
she wants them to see — see that, and nothing else. 
For example, right now I would appear to be alone in 
the middle of a rain forest. It’s so clear I might 
possibly believe it, except for the fact that I can still 
feel you in my arms.” 

Zafrina’s lips twitched into her hard version of a 
smile. A second later, Edward’s eyes focused again, 
and he grinned back. 

“Impressive,” he said. 

Renesmee was fascinated with the conversation, and 
she reached out fearlessly toward Zafrina. 

“Can I see?” she asked. 

“What would you like to see?” Zafrina asked. 

“What you showed Daddy.” 



688 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Zafrina nodded, and I watched anxiously as 
Renesmee’s eyes stared blankly into space. A second 
later, Renesmee’s dazzling smile lit up her face. 

“More,” she commanded. 

After that, it was hard to keep Renesmee away from 
Zafrina and her pretty pictures. I worried, because I 
was quite sure that Zafrina was able to create images 
that were not pretty at all. But through Renesmee’s 
thoughts I could see Zafrina’s visions for myself 

— they were as clear as any of Renesmee’s own 
memories, like they were real — and thus judge for 
myself whether they were appropriate or not. 

Though I didn’t give her up easily, I had to admit it 
was a good thing Zafrina was keeping Renesmee 
entertained. I needed my hands. I had so much to 
learn, both physically and mentally, and the time was 
so short. 

My first attempt at learning to fight did not go well. 

Edward had me pinned in about two seconds. But 
instead of letting me wrestle my way free — which I 
absolutely could have — he’d leaped up and away from 
me. I knew immediately that something was wrong; 
he was still as stone, staring across the meadow we 
were practicing in. 

“I’m sorry, Bella,” he said. 

“No, I’m fine,” I said. “Let’s go again.” 

“I can’t.” 



689 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“What do you mean, you can’t? We just started.” 

He didn’t answer. 

“Look, I know I’m no good at this, but I can’t get 
better if you don’t help me.” 

He said nothing. Playfully, I sprang at him. He made 
no defense at all, and we both fell to the ground. He 
was motionless as I pressed my lips to his jugular. 

“I win,” I announced. 

His eyes narrowed, but he said nothing. 

“Edward? What’s wrong? Why won’t you teach me?” 

A full minute passed before he spoke again. 

“I just can’t... bear it. Emmett and Rosalie know as 
much as I do. Tanya and Eleazar probably know 
more. Ask someone else.” 

“That’s not fair! You’re good at this. You helped 
Jasper before — you fought with him and all the 
others, too. Why not me? What did I do wrong?” 

He sighed, exasperated. His eyes were dark, barely 
any gold to lighten the black. 

“Looking at you that way, analyzing you as a target. 
Seeing all the ways I can kill you . . 

.” He flinched. “It just makes it too real for me. We 
don’t have so much time that it will really make a 
difference who your teacher is. Anyone can teach you 
the fundamentals.” 



I scowled. 

690 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He touched my pouting lower lip and smiled. 

“Besides, it’s unnecessary. The Volturi will stop. They 
will be made to understand.” 

“But if they don’t! I need to learn this.” 

“Find another teacher.” 

That was not our last conversation on the subject, 
but I never swayed him an inch from his decision. 

Emmett was more than willing to help, though his 
teaching felt to me a lot like revenge for all the lost 
arm-wrestling matches. If I could still bruise, I would 
have been purple from head to toe. Rose, Tanya, and 
Eleazar all were patient and supportive. Their lessons 
reminded me of Jasper’s fighting instructions to the 
others last June, though those memories were fuzzy 
and indistinct. Some of the visitors found my 
education entertaining, and some even offered 
assistance. The nomad Garrett took a few turns — he 
was a surprisingly good teacher; he interacted so 
easily with others in general that I wondered how he’d 
never found a coven. I even fought once with Zafrina 
while Renesmee watched from Jacob’s arms. I learned 
several tricks, but I never asked for her help again. In 
truth, though I liked Zafrina very much and I knew 
she wouldn’t really hurt me, the wild woman scared 
me to death. 

I learned many things from my teachers, but I had 
the sense that my knowledge was still impossibly 
basic. I had no idea how many seconds I would last 
against Alec and Jane. I only prayed that it would be 
long enough to help. 



691 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Every minute of the day that I wasn’t with Renesmee 
or learning to fight, I was in the backyard working 
with Kate, trying to push my internal shield outside of 
my own brain to protect someone else. Edward 
encouraged me in this training. I knew he hoped I 
would find a way of contributing that satisfied me 
while also keeping me out of the line of fire. 

It was just so hard. There was nothing to get a hold 
of, nothing solid to work with. I had only my raging 
desire to be of use, to be able to keep Edward, 
Renesmee, and as much of my family as possible safe 
with me. Over and over I tried to force the nebulous 
shield outside of myself, with only faint, sporadic 
success. It felt like I was wrestling to stretch an 
invisible rubber band — a band that would change 
from concrete tangibility into insubstantial smoke at 
any random moment. 

Only Edward was willing to be our guinea pig — to 
receive shock after shock from Kate while I grappled 
incompetently with the insides of my head. We 
worked for hours at a time, and I felt like I should be 
covered in sweat from the exertion, but of course my 
perfect body didn’t betray me that way. My weariness 
was all mental. It killed me that it was Edward who 
had to suffer, my arms wrapped uselessly around him 
while he winced over and over from Kate’s “low” 
setting. I tried as hard as I could to push my shield 
around us both; every now and then I would get it, 
and then it would slip away again. 

I hated this practice, and I wished that Zafrina would 
help instead of Kate. Then all Edward would have to 
do was look at Zafrina’s illusions until I could stop 

692 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




him from seeing them. But Kate insisted that I needed 
better motivation — by which she meant my hatred of 
watching Edward’s pain. I was beginning to doubt her 
assertion from the first day we’d met — that she wasn’t 
sadistic about the use of her gift. She seemed to be 
enjoying herself to me. 

“Hey,” Edward said cheerfully, trying to hide any 
evidence of distress in his voice. Anything to keep me 
from fighting practice. “That one barely stung. Good 
job, Bella.” 

I took a deep breath, trying to grasp exactly what I’d 
done right. I tested the elastic band, struggling to 
force it to remain solid as I stretched it away from me. 

“Again, Kate,” I grunted through my clenched teeth. 

Kate pressed her palm to Edward’s shoulder. 

He sighed in relief. “Nothing that time.” 

She raised an eyebrow. “That wasn’t low, either.” 

“Good,” I huffed. 

“Get ready,” she told me, and reached out to Edward 
again. 

This time he shuddered, and a low breath hissed 
between his teeth. 

“Sorry! Sorry! Sorry!” I chanted, biting my lip. Why 
couldn’t I get this right? 

“You’re doing an amazing job, Bella,” Edward said, 
pulling me tight against him. 



693 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’ve really only been working at this for a few days 
and you’re already projecting sporadically. Kate, tell 
her how well she’s doing.” 

Kate pursed her lips. “I don’t know. She’s obviously 
got tremendous ability, and we’re only beginning to 
touch it. She can do better, I’m sure. She’s just 
lacking incentive.” 

I stared at her in disbelief, my lips automatically 
curling back from my teeth. How could she think I 
lacked motivation with her shocking Edward right 
here in front of me? 

I heard murmurs from the audience that had grown 
steadily as I practiced — only Eleazar, Carmen, and 
Tanya at first, but then Garrett had wandered over, 
then Benjamin and Tia, Siobhan and Maggie, and 
now even Alistair was peering down from a window on 
the third story. The spectators agreed with Edward; 
they thought I was already doing well. 

“Kate...,” Edward said in a warning voice as some new 
course of action occurred to her, but she was already 
in motion. She darted along the curve of the river to 
where Zafrina, Senna, and Renesmee were walking 
slowly, Renesmee ’s hand in Zafrina’s as they traded 
pictures back and forth. Jacob shadowed them from a 
few feet behind. 

“Nessie,” Kate said — the newcomers had quickly 
picked up the irritating nickname, 

“would you like to come help your mother?” 

“No,” I half-snarled. 



694 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward hugged me reassuringly. I shook him off just 
as Renesmee flitted across the yard to me, with Kate, 
Zafrina, and Senna right behind her. 

“Absolutely not, Kate,” I hissed. 

Renesmee reached for me, and I opened my arms 
automatically. She curled into me, pressing her head 
into the hollow beneath my shoulder. 

“But Momma, I want to help,” she said in a 
determined voice. Her hand rested against my neck, 
reinforcing her desire with images of the two of us 
together, a team. 

“No,” I said, quickly backing away. Kate had taken a 
deliberate step in my direction, her hand stretched 
toward us. 

“Stay away from us, Kate,” I warned her. 

“No.” She began stalking forward. She smiled like a 
hunter cornering her prey. I shifted Renesmee so that 
she was clinging to my back, still backing away at a 
pace that matched Kate’s. Now my hands were free, 
and if Kate wanted to keep her hands attached to her 
wrists, she’d better keep her distance. 

Kate probably didn’t understand, never having known 
for herself the passion of a mother for her child. She 
must not have realized just how far past too far she’d 
already gone. I was so furious that my vision took on 
a strange reddish tint, and my tongue tasted like 
burning metal. The strength I usually worked to keep 
restrained flowed through my muscles, and I knew I 



695 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




could crush her into diamond-hard rubble if she 
pushed me to it. 

The rage brought every aspect of my being into 
sharper focus. I could even feel the elasticity of my 
shield more exactly now — feel that it was not a band 
so much as a layer, a thin film that covered me from 
head to toe. With the anger rippling through my body, 
I had a better sense of it, a tighter hold on it. I 
stretched it around myself, out from myself, 
swaddling Renesmee completely inside it, just in case 
Kate got past my guard. Kate took another calculated 
step forward, and a vicious snarl ripped up my throat 
and through my clenched teeth. 

“Be careful, Kate,” Edward cautioned. 

Kate took another step, and then made a mistake 
even someone as inexpert as I could recognize. Just a 
short leap away from me, she looked away, turning 
her attention from me to Edward. 

Renesmee was secure on my back; I coiled to spring. 

“Can you hear anything from Nessie?” Kate asked 
him, her voice calm and easy. Edward darted into the 
space between us, blocking my line to Kate. 

“No, nothing at all,” he answered. “Now give Bella 
some space to calm down, Kate. You shouldn’t goad 
her like that. I know she doesn’t seem her age, but 
she’s only a few months old.” 

“We don’t have time to do this gently, Edward. We’re 
going to have to push her. We only have a few weeks, 
and she’s got the potential to — ” 



696 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Back off for a minute, Kate.” 

Kate frowned but took Edward’s warning more 
seriously than she’d taken mine. Renesmee’s hand 
was on my neck; she was remembering Kate’s attack, 
showing me that no harm was meant, that Daddy was 
in on it.... 

This did not pacify me. The spectrum of light I saw 
still seemed tainted with crimson. But I was in better 
control of myself, and I could see the wisdom of Kate’s 
words. The anger helped me. I would learn faster 
under pressure. 

That didn’t mean I liked it. 

“Kate,” I growled. I rested my hand on the small of 
Edward’s back. I could still feel my shield like a 
strong, flexible sheet around Renesmee and me. I 
pushed it farther, forcing it around Edward. There 
was no sign of a flaw in the stretchy fabric, no threat 
of a tear. I panted with the effort, and my words came 
out sounding breathless rather than furious. 

“Again,” I said to Kate. “Edward only.” 

She rolled her eyes but flitted forward and pressed 
her palm to Edward’s shoulder. 

“Nothing,” Edward said. I heard the smile in his voice. 
“And now?” Kate asked. 

“Still nothing.” 

“And now?” This time, there was the sound of strain 
in her voice. 



697 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nothing at all.” 

Kate grunted and stepped away. 

“Can you see this?” Zafrina asked in her deep, wild 
voice, staring intently at the three of us. Her English 
was strangely accented, her words pulling up in 
unexpected places. 

“I don’t see anything I shouldn’t,” Edward said. 

“And you, Renesmee?” Zafrina asked. 

Renesmee smiled at Zafrina and shook her head. 

My fury had almost entirely ebbed, and I clenched my 
teeth together, panting faster as I pushed out against 
the elastic shield; it felt like it was getting heavier the 
longer I held it. It pulled back, dragging inward. 

“No one panic,” Zafrina warned the little group 
watching me. “I want to see how far she can extend.” 

There was a shocked gasp from everyone there — 
Eleazar, Carmen, Tanya, Garrett, Benjamin, Tia, 
Siobhan, Maggie — everyone but Senna, who seemed 
prepared for whatever Zafrina was doing. The others’ 
eyes were blank, their expressions anxious. 

“Raise your hand when you get your sight back,” 
Zafrina instructed. “Now, Bella. See how many you 
can shield.” 

My breath came out in a huff. Kate was the closest 
person to me besides Edward and Renesmee, but 
even she was about ten feet away. I locked my jaw 
and shoved, trying to heave the resisting, resilient 



698 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




safeguard farther from myself. Inch by inch I drove it 
toward Kate, fighting the reaction that fought back 
with every fraction that I gained. I only watched 
Kate’s anxious expression while I worked, and I 
groaned quietly with relief when her eyes blinked and 
focused. She raised her hand. 

“Fascinating!” Edward murmured under his breath. 
“It’s like one-way glass. I can read everything they’re 
thinking, but they can’t reach me behind it. And I can 
hear Renesmee, though I couldn’t when I was on the 
outside. I’ll bet Kate could shock me now, because 
she’s underneath the umbrella. I still can’t hear you... 
hmmm. How does that work? I wonder if . . .” 

He continued to mumble to himself, but I couldn’t 
listen to the words. I ground my teeth together, 
struggling to force the shield out to Garrett, who was 
closest to Kate. His hand came up. 

“Very good,” Zafrina complimented me. “Now — ” 

But she’d spoken too soon; with a sharp gasp, I felt 
my shield recoil like a rubber band stretched too far, 
snapping back into its original shape. Renesmee, 
experiencing for the first time the blindness Zafrina 
had conjured for the others, trembled against my 
back. Wearily, I fought back against the elastic pull, 
forcing the shield to include her again. 

“Can I have a minute?” I panted. Since I’d become a 
vampire, I hadn’t felt the need to rest even once before 
this moment. It was unnerving to feel so drained and 
yet so strong at the same time. 



699 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course,” Zafrina said, and the spectators relaxed 
as she let them see again. 

“Kate,” Garrett called as the others murmured and 
drifted slightly away, disturbed by the moment of 
blindness; vampires were not used to feeling 
vulnerable. The tall, sandyhaired Garrett was the only 
non-gifted immortal who seemed drawn to my 
practice sessions. I wondered what the lure was for 
the adventurer. 

“I wouldn’t, Garrett,” Edward cautioned. 

Garrett continued toward Kate despite the warning, 
his lips pursed in speculation. “They say you can put 
a vampire flat on his back.” 

“Yes,” she agreed. Then, with a sly smile, she wiggled 
her fingers playfully at him. 

“Curious?” 

Garrett shrugged. “That’s something I’ve never seen. 
Seems like it might be a bit of an exaggeration. ...” 

“Maybe,” Kate said, her face suddenly serious. “Maybe 
it only works on the weak or the young. I’m not sure. 
You look strong, though. Perhaps you could 
withstand my gift.” 

She stretched her hand out to him, palm up — a clear 
invitation. Her lips twitched, and I was pretty sure her 
grave expression was an attempt to hustle him. 
Garrett grinned at the challenge. Very confidently, he 
touched her palm with his index finger. 



700 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




And then, with a loud gasp, his knees buckled and he 
keeled over backward. His head hit a piece of granite 
with a sharp cracking noise. It was shocking to 
watch. My instincts recoiled against seeing an 
immortal incapacitated that way; it was profoundly 
wrong. 

“I told you so,” Edward muttered. 

Garrett’s eyelids trembled for a few seconds, and then 
his eyes opened wide. He stared up at the smirking 
Kate, and a wondering smile lit his face. 

“Wow,” he said. 

“Did you enjoy that?” she asked skeptically. 

“I’m not crazy,” he laughed, shaking his head as he 
got slowly to his knees, “but that was sure 
something!” 

“That’s what I hear.” 

Edward rolled his eyes. 

And then there was a low commotion from the front 
yard. I heard Carlisle speaking over a babble of 
surprised voices. 

“Did Alice send you?” he asked someone, his voice 
unsure, slightly upset. Another unexpected guest? 

Edward darted into the house and most of the others 
imitated him. I followed more slowly, Renesmee still 
perched on my back. I would give Carlisle a moment. 
Let him warm up the new guest, prepare him or her 
or them for the idea of what was coming. I pulled 



701 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Renesmee into my arms as I walked cautiously 
around the house to enter through the kitchen door, 
listening to what I couldn’t see. 

“No one sent us,” a deep whispery voice answered 
Carlisle’s question. I was immediately reminded of the 
ancient voices of Aro and Caius, and I froze just 
inside the kitchen. 

I knew the front room was crowded — almost everyone 
had gone in to see the newest visitors — but there was 
barely any noise. Shallow breathing, that was all. 
Carlisle’s voice was wary as he responded. “Then 
what brings you here now?” 

“Word travels,” a different voice answered, just as 
feathery as the first. “We heard hints that Volturi 
were moving against you. There were whispers that 
you would not stand alone. Obviously, the whispers 
were true. This is an impressive gathering.” 

“We are not challenging the Volturi,” Carlisle 
answered in a strained tone. “There has been a 
misunderstanding, that is all. A very serious 
misunderstanding, to be sure, but one we’re hoping to 
clear up. What you see are witnesses. We just need 
the Volturi to listen. We didn’t — ” 

“We don’t care what they say you did,” the first voice 
interrupted. “And we don’t care if you broke the law.” 

“No matter how egregiously,” the second inserted. 

“We’ve been waiting a millennium and a half for the 
Italian scum to be challenged,” 



702 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




said the first. “If there is any chance they will fall, we 
will be here to see it.” 

“Or even to help defeat them,” the second added. They 
spoke in a smooth tandem, their voices so similar 
that less sensitive ears would assume there was only 
one speaker. “If we think you have a chance of 
success.” 

“Bella?” Edward called to me in a hard voice. “Bring 
Renesmee here, please. Maybe we should test our 
Romanian visitors’ claims.” 

It helped to know that probably half of the vampires 
in the other room would come to Renesmee ’s defense 
if these Romanians were upset by her. I didn’t like the 
sound of their voices, or the dark menace in their 
words. As I walked into the room, I could see that I 
was not alone in that assessment. Most of the 
motionless vampires glared with hostile eyes, and a 
few — Carmen, Tanya, Zafrina, and Senna — 
repositioned themselves subtly into defensive poses 
between the newcomers and Renesmee. The vampires 
at the door were both slight and short, one dark- 
haired and the other with hair so ashy blond that it 
looked pale gray. They had the same powdery look to 
their skin as the Volturi, though I thought it was not 
so pronounced. I couldn’t be sure about that, as I had 
never seen the Volturi except with human eyes; I 
could not make a perfect comparison. Their sharp, 
narrow eyes were dark burgundy, with no milky film. 
They wore very simple black clothes that could pass 
as modern but hinted at older designs. The dark one 
grinned when I came into view. “Well, well, Carlisle. 
You have been naughty, haven’t you?” 

703 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“She’s not what you think, Stefan.” 

“And we don’t care either way,” the blonde responded. 
“As we said before.” 

“Then you’re welcome to observe, Vladimir, but it is 
definitely not our plan to challenge the Volturi, as we 
said before.” 

“Then we’ll just cross our fingers,” Stefan began. 

“And hope we get lucky,” finished Vladimir. 

In the end, we had pulled together seventeen 
witnesses — the Irish, Siobhan, Liam, and Maggie; the 
Egyptians, Amun, Kebi, Benjamin, and Tia; the 
Amazons, Zafrina and Senna; the Romanians, 
Vladimir and Stefan; and the nomads, Charlotte and 
Peter, Garrett, Alistair, Mary, and Randall — to 
supplement our family of eleven. Tanya, Kate, 

Eleazar, and Carmen insisted on being counted as 
part of our family. Aside from the Volturi, it was 
probably the largest friendly gathering of mature 
vampires in immortal history. 

We all were beginning to be a little bit hopeful. Even I 
couldn’t help it. Renesmee had won over so many in 
such a brief time. The Volturi only had to listen for 
just the tiniest second. . . . 

The last two surviving Romanians — focused only on 
their bitter resentment of the ones who had 
overthrown their empire fifteen hundred years 
earlier — took everything in stride. They would not 
touch Renesmee, but they showed no aversion to her. 
They seemed mysteriously delighted by our alliance 



704 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




with the werewolves. They watched me practice my 
shield with Zafrina and Kate, watched Edward answer 
unspoken questions, watched Benjamin pull geysers 
of water from the river or sharp gusts of wind from 
the still air with just his mind, and their eyes glowed 
with their fierce hope that the Volturi had finally met 
their match. 

We did not hope for the same things, but we all 
hoped. 



705 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





“Charlie, we’ve still got that strictly need-to-know 
company situation going. I know it’s been more than 
a week since you saw Renesmee, but a visit is just not 
a good idea right now. How about I bring Renesmee 
over to see you?” 

Charlie was quiet for so long that I wondered if he 
heard the strain beneath my fagade. But then he 
muttered, “Need to know, ugh,” and I realized it was 
just his wariness of the supernatural that made him 
slow to respond. 

“Okay, kid,” Charlie said. “Can you bring her over this 
morning? Sue’s bringing me lunch. She’s just as 
horrified by my cooking as you were when you first 
showed up.” 

Charlie laughed and then sighed for the old days. 

“This morning will be perfect.” The sooner the better. 
I’d already put this off too long. 

“Is Jake coming with you guys?” 

Though Charlie didn’t know anything about werewolf 
imprinting, no one could be oblivious to the 
attachment between Jacob and Renesmee. 

“Probably.” There was no way Jacob would voluntarily 
miss an afternoon with Renesmee sans bloodsuckers. 



706 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“Maybe I should invite Billy, too,” Charlie mused. 
“But... hmm. Maybe another time.” 

I was only half paying attention to Charlie — enough to 
notice the strange reluctance in his voice when he 
spoke of Billy, but not enough to worry what that was 
about. Charlie and Billy were grown-ups; if there was 
something going on between them, they could figure it 
out for themselves. I had too many more important 
things to obsess over. 

“See you in a few,” I told him, and hung up. 

This trip was about more than protecting my father 
from the twenty-seven oddly matched vampires — who 
all had sworn not to kill anyone in a three-hundred- 
mile radius, but still... Obviously, no human being 
should get anywhere near this group. This was the 
excuse I’d given Edward: I was taking Renesmee to 
Charlie so that he wouldn’t decide to come here. It 
was a good reason for leaving the house, but not my 
real reason at all. 

“Why can’t we take your Ferrari?” Jacob complained 
when he met me in the garage. I was already in 
Edward’s Volvo with Renesmee. 

Edward had gotten around to revealing my after car; 
as he’d suspected, I had not been capable of showing 
the appropriate enthusiasm. Sure, it was pretty and 
fast, but I liked to run. 

“Too conspicuous,” I answered. “We could go on foot, 
but that would freak Charlie out.” 



707 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob grumbled but got into the front seat. Renesmee 
climbed from my lap to his. 

“How are you?” I asked him as I pulled out of the 
garage. 

“How do you think?” Jacob asked bitingly. “I’m sick of 
all these reeking bloodsuckers.” 

He saw my expression and spoke before I could 
answer. “Yeah, I know, I know. They’re the good guys, 
they’re here to help, they’re going to save us all. 
Etcetera, etcetera. Say what you want, I still think 
Dracula One and Dracula Two are creep-tacular.” 

I had to smile. The Romanians weren’t my favorite 
guests, either. “I don’t disagree with you there.” 

Renesmee shook her head but said nothing; unlike 
the rest of us, she found the Romanians strangely 
fascinating. She’d made the effort to speak to them 
aloud since they would not let her touch them. Her 
question was about their unusual skin and, though I 
was afraid they might be offended, I was kind of glad 
she’d asked. I was curious, too. 

They hadn’t seemed upset by her interest. Maybe a 
little rueful. 

“We sat still for a very long time, child,” Vladimir had 
answered, with Stefan nodding along but not 
continuing Vladimir’s sentences as he often did. 
“Contemplating our own divinity. It was a sign of our 
power that everything came to us. Prey, diplomats, 
those seeking our favor. We sat on our thrones and 
thought ourselves gods. We didn’t notice for a long 



708 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




time that we were changing — almost petrifying. I 
suppose the Volturi did us one favor when they 
burned our castles. Stefan and I, at least, did not 
continue to petrify. Now the Volturi’s eyes are filmed 
with dusty scum, but ours are bright. I imagine that 
will give us an advantage when we gouge theirs from 
their sockets.” 

I tried to keep Renesmee away from them after that. 

“How long do we get to hang out with Charlie?” Jacob 
asked, interrupting my thoughts. He was visibly 
relaxing as we pulled away from the house and all its 
new inmates. It made me happy that I didn’t really 
count as a vampire to him. I was still just Bella. 

“For quite a while, actually.” 

The tone of my voice caught his attention. 

“Is something going on here besides visiting your 
dad?” 

“Jake, you know how you’re pretty good at controlling 
your thoughts around Edward?” 

He raised one thick black brow. “Yeah?” 

I just nodded, cutting my eyes to Renesmee. She was 
looking out the window, and I couldn’t tell how 
interested she was in our conversation, but I decided 
not to risk going any further. 

Jacob waited for me to add something else, and then 
his lower lip pushed out while he thought about what 
little I’d said. 



709 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




As we drove in silence, I squinted through the 
annoying contacts into the cold rain; it wasn’t quite 
cold enough for snow. My eyes were not as ghoulish 
as they had been in the beginning — definitely closer to 
a dull reddish orange than to bright crimson. Soon 
they’d be amber enough for me to quit the contacts. I 
hoped the change wouldn’t upset Charlie too much. 

Jacob was still chewing over our truncated 
conversation when we got to Charlie’s. We didn’t talk 
as we walked at a quick human pace through the 
falling rain. My dad was waiting for us; he had the 
door open before I could knock. 

“Hey, guys! It seems like it’s been years! Look at you, 
Nessie! Come to Grampa! I swear you’ve grown half a 
foot. And you look skinny, Ness.” He glared at me. 
“Aren’t they feeding you up there?” 

“It’s just the growth spurt,” I muttered. “Hey, Sue,” I 
called over his shoulder. The smell of chicken, 
tomato, garlic, and cheese issued from the kitchen; it 
probably smelled good to everyone else. I could also 
smell fresh pine and packing dust. Renesmee flashed 
her dimples. She never spoke in front of Charlie. 

“Well, come on in out of the cold, kids. Where’s my 
son-in-law?” 

“Entertaining friends,” Jacob said, and then snorted. 
“You’re so lucky you’re out of the loop, Charlie. That’s 
all I’m going to say.” 

I punched Jacob lightly in the kidney while Charlie 
cringed. 



710 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Ow,” Jacob complained under his breath; well, I’d 
thought I’d punched lightly. 

“Actually, Charlie, I have some errands to run.” 

Jacob shot a glance at me but said nothing. 

“Behind on your Christmas shopping, Bells? You only 
have a few days, you know.” 

“Yeah, Christmas shopping,” I said lamely. That 
explained the packing dust. Charlie must have put 
the old decorations up. 

“Don’t worry, Nessie,” he whispered in her ear. “I got 
you covered if your mom drops the ball.” 

I rolled my eyes at him, but in truth, I hadn’t thought 
about the holidays at all. 

“Lunch’s on the table,” Sue called from the kitchen. 
“C’mon, guys.” 

“See you later, Dad,” I said, and exchanged a quick 
look with Jacob. Even if he couldn’t help but think 
about this near Edward, at least there wasn’t much 
for him to share. He had no idea what I was up to. 

Of course, I thought to myself as I got into the car, it 
wasn’t like I had much idea, either. The roads were 
slick and dark, but driving didn’t intimidate me 
anymore. My reflexes were well up to the job, and I 
barely paid attention to the road. The problem was 
keeping my speed from attracting attention when I 
had company. I wanted to be done with today’s 
mission, to have the mystery sorted out so that I 
could get back to the vital task of learning. Learning 



711 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




to protect some, learning to kill others. I was getting 
better and better with my shield. Kate didn’t feel the 
need to motivate me anymore — it wasn’t hard to find 
reasons to feel angry, now that I knew that was the 
key 

— and so I mostly worked with Zafrina. She was 
pleased with my extension; I was able to cover almost 
a ten-foot area for more than a minute, though it 
exhausted me. This morning she’d been trying to find 
out if I could push the shield away from my mind 
altogether. I didn’t see what the use of that would be, 
but Zafrina thought it would help strengthen me, like 
exercising muscles in the stomach and back rather 
than just the arms. Eventually, you could lift more 
weight when all the muscles were stronger. I wasn’t 
very good at it. I had only gotten one glimpse of the 
jungle river she was trying to show me. 

But there were different ways to prepare for what was 
coming, and with only two weeks left, I worried that I 
might be neglecting the most important. Today I 
would rectify that oversight. 

I’d memorized the appropriate maps, and I had no 
problem finding my way to the address that didn’t 
exist online, the one for J. Jenks. My next step would 
be Jason Jenks at the other address, the one Alice 
had not given me. 

To say that it wasn’t a nice neighborhood would be an 
understatement. The most nondescript of all the 
Cullens’ cars was still outrageous on this street. My 
old Chevy would have looked healthy here. During my 
human years, I would have locked the doors and 



712 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




driven away as fast as I dared. As it was, I was a little 
fascinated. I tried to imagine Alice in this place for 
any reason, and failed. 

The buildings — all three stories, all narrow, all leaning 
slightly as if bowed by the pounding rain — were 
mostly old houses divided up into multiple 
apartments. It was hard to tell what color the peeling 
paint was supposed to be. Everything had faded to 
shades of gray. A few of the buildings had businesses 
on the first floor: a dirty bar with the windows painted 
black, a psychic’s supply store with neon hands and 
tarot cards glowing fitfully on the door, a tattoo 
parlor, and a daycare with duct tape holding the 
broken front window together. There were no lamps 
on inside any of the rooms, though it was grim 
enough outside that the humans should have needed 
the light. I could hear the low mumbling of voices in 
the distance; it sounded like TV. There were a few 
people about, two shuffling through the rain in 
opposite directions and one sitting on the shallow 
porch of a boarded-up cut-rate law office, reading a 
wet newspaper and whistling. The sound was much 
too cheerful for the setting. I was so bemused by the 
carefree whistler, I didn’t realize at first that the 
abandoned building was right where the address I 
was looking for should exist. There were no numbers 
on the dilapidated place, but the tattoo parlor beside 
it was just two numbers off. 

I pulled up to the curb and idled for a second. I was 
getting into that dump one way or another, but how 
to do so without the whistler noticing me? I could 
park the next street over and come through the 



713 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




back.... There might be more witnesses on that side. 
Maybe the rooftops? Was it dark enough for that kind 
of thing? 

“Hey, lady,” the whistler called to me. 

I rolled the passenger window down as if I couldn’t 
hear him. 

The man laid his paper aside, and his clothes 
surprised me, now that I could see them. Under his 
long ragged duster, he was a little too well dressed. 
There was no breeze to give me the scent, but the 
sheen on his dark red shirt looked like silk. His 
crinkly black hair was tangled and wild, but his dark 
skin was smooth and perfect, his teeth white and 
straight. A contradiction. 

“Maybe you shouldn’t park that car there, lady,” he 
said. “It might not be here when you get back.” 

“Thanks for the warning,” I said. 

I shut off the engine and got out. Perhaps my 
whistling friend could give me the answers I needed 
faster than breaking and entering. I opened my big 
gray umbrella — 

not that I cared, really, about protecting the long 
cashmere sweater-dress I wore. It was what a human 
would do. 

The man squinted through the rain at my face, and 
then his eyes widened. He swallowed, and I heard his 
heart accelerate as I approached. 

“I’m looking for someone,” I began. 



714 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm someone,” he offered with a smile. “What can I do 
for you, beautiful?” 

“Are you J. Jenks?” I asked. 

“Oh,” he said, and his expression changed from 
anticipation to understanding. He got to his feet and 
examined me with narrowed eyes. “Why ’re you 
looking for J?” 

“That’s my business.” Besides, I didn’t have a clue. 
“Are you J?” 

“No.” 

We faced each other for a long moment while his 
sharp eyes ran up and down the fitted pearl gray 
sheath I wore. His gaze finally made it to my face. 

“You don’t look like the usual customer.” 

“I’m probably not the usual,” I admitted. “But I do 
need to see him as soon as possible.” 

“I’m not sure what to do,” he admitted. 

“Why don’t you tell me your name?” 

He grinned. “Max.” 

“Nice to meet you, Max. Now, why don’t you tell me 
what you do for the usual?” 

His grin became a frown. “Well, J’s usual clients don’t 
look a thing like you. Your kind doesn’t bother with 
the downtown office. You just go straight up to his 
fancy office in the skyscraper.” 



715 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I repeated the other address I had, making the list of 
numbers a question. 

“Yeah, that’s the place,” he said, suspicious again. 
“How come you didn’t go there?” 

“This was the address I was given — by a very 
dependable source.” 

“If you were up to any good, you wouldn’t be here.” 

I pursed my lips. I’d never been much good at 
bluffing, but Alice hadn’t left me a lot of alternatives. 
“Maybe I’m not up to any good.” 

Max’s face turned apologetic. “Look, lady — ” 

“Bella.” 

“Right. Bella. See, I need this job. J pays me pretty 
good to mostly just hang out here all day. I want to 
help you, I do, but — and of course I’m speaking 
hypothetically, right? Or off the record, or whatever 
works for you — but if I pass somebody through that 
could get him in trouble, I’m out of work. Do you see 
my problem?” 

I thought for a minute, chewing on my lip. “You’ve 
never seen anyone like me here before? Well, sort of 
like me. My sister is a lot shorter than me, and she 
has dark spiky black hair.” 

“J knows your sister?” 

“I think so.” 

Max pondered this for a moment. I smiled at him, and 
his breathing stuttered. “Tell you what I’ll do. I’ll give 



716 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




J a call and describe you to him. Let him make the 
decision.” 

What did J. Jenks know? Would my description mean 
something to him? That was a troubling thought. 

“My last name is Cullen,” I told Max, wondering if that 
was too much information. I was starting to get 
irritated with Alice. Did I really have to be quite this 
blind? She could have given me one or two more 
words.... 

“Cullen, got it.” 

I watched as he dialed, easily picking out the number. 
Well, I could call J. Jenks myself if this didn’t work. 

“Hey J, it’s Max. I know I’m never supposed to call 
you at this number except in an emergency. ...” 

Is there an emergency? I heard faintly from the other 
end. 

“Well, not exactly. It’s this girl who wants to see you. . 



I fail to see the emergency in that. Why didn’t you 
follow normal procedure? 

“I didn’t follow normal procedure ’cause she don’t look 
like any kind of normal — ” 

Is she a badge?! 

“No—” 



You can’t be sure about that. Does she look like one 
of Kubarev’s — ? 



717 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No — let me talk, okay? She says you know her sister 
or something.” 

Not likely. What does she look like? 

“She looks like ...” His eyes ran from my face to my 
shoes appreciatively. “Well, she looks like a freaking 
supermodel, that’s what she looks like.” I smiled and 
he winked at me, then went on. “Rocking body, pale 
as a sheet, dark brown hair almost to her waist, 
needs a good night’s sleep — any of this sounding 
familiar?” 

No, it doesn’t. I’m not happy that you let your 
weakness for pretty women interrupt — 

“Yeah, so I’m a sucker for the pretty ones, what’s 
wrong with that? I’m sorry I bothered you, man. Just 
forget it.” 

“Name,” I whispered. 

“Oh right. Wait,” Max said. “She says her name is 
Bella Cullen. That help?” 

There was a beat of dead silence, and then the voice 
on the other end was abruptly screaming, using a lot 
of words you didn’t often hear outside of truck stops. 
Max’s whole expression changed; all the joking 
vanished and his lips went pale. 

“Because you didn’t ask!” Max yelled back, panicked. 
There was another pause while J collected himself. 
Beautiful and pale? J asked, a tiny bit calmer. 

“I said that, didn’t I?” 



718 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Beautiful and pale? What did this man know about 
vampires? Was he one of us himself? 

I wasn’t prepared for that kind of confrontation. I 
gritted my teeth. What had Alice gotten me into? 

Max waited for a minute through another volley of 
shouted insults and instructions and then glanced at 
me with eyes that were almost frightened. “But you 
only meet downtown clients on Thursdays — okay, 
okay! On it.” He slid his phone shut. 

“He wants to see me?” I asked brightly. 

Max glowered. “You could have told me you were a 
priority client.” 

“I didn’t know I was.” 

“I thought you might be a cop,” he admitted. “I mean, 
you don’t look like a cop. But you act kind of weird, 
beautiful.” 

I shrugged. 

“Drug cartel?” he guessed. 

“Who, me?” I asked. 

“Yeah. Or your boyfriend or whatever.” 

“Nope, sorry. I’m not really a fan of drugs, and neither 
is my husband. Just say no and all that.” 

Max cussed under his breath. “Married. Can’t catch a 
break.” 

I smiled. 



719 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Mafia?” 



“Nope.” 

“Diamond smuggling?” 

“Please! Is that the kind of people you usually deal 
with, Max? Maybe you need a new job.” 

I had to admit, I was enjoying myself a little. I hadn’t 
interacted with humans much besides Charlie and 
Sue. It was entertaining to watch him flounder. I was 
also pleased at how easy it was not to kill him. 

“You’ve got to be involved in something big. And bad,” 
he mused. 

“It’s not really like that.” 

“That’s what they all say. But who else needs papers? 
Or can afford to pay J’s prices for them, I should say. 
None of my business, anyway,” he said, and then 
muttered the word married again. 

He gave me an entirely new address with basic 
directions, and then watched me drive away with 
suspicious, regretful eyes. 

At this point, I was ready for almost anything — some 
kind of James Bond villain’s hightech lair seemed 
appropriate. So I thought Max must have given me 
the wrong address as a test. Or maybe the lair was 
subterranean, underneath this very commonplace 
strip mall nestled up against a wooded hill in a nice 
family neighborhood. I pulled into an open spot and 
looked up at a tastefully subtle sign that read JASON 



720 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




SCOTT, ATTORNEY AT LAW. 

The office inside was beige with celery green accents, 
inoffensive and unremarkable. There was no scent of 
vampire here, and that helped me relax. Nothing but 
unfamiliar human. A fish tank was set into the wall, 
and a blandly pretty blond receptionist sat behind the 
desk. 

“Hello,” she greeted me. “How can I help you?” 

“I’m here to see Mr. Scott.” 

“Do you have an appointment?” 

“Not exactly.” 

She smirked a little. “It could be a while, then. Why 
don’t you have a seat while I — ” 

April! a man’s demanding voice squawked from the 
phone on her desk. I’m expecting a Ms. Cullen 
shortly. 

I smiled and pointed to myself. 

Send her in immediately. Do you understand? I don’t 
care what it’s interrupting. I could hear something 
else in his voice besides impatience. Stress. Nerves. 

“She’s just arrived,” April said as soon as she could 
speak. 

What? Send her in! What are you waiting for? 

“Right away, Mr. Scott!” She got to her feet, fluttering 
her hands as she led the way down a short hallway, 



721 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




offering me coffee or tea or anything else I might have 
wanted. 

“Here you are,” she said as she ushered me through 
the door into a power office, complete with heavy 
wooden desk and vanity wall. 

“Close the door behind you,” a raspy tenor voice 
ordered. 

I examined the man behind the desk while April made 
a hasty retreat. He was short and balding, probably 
around fifty-five, with a paunch. He wore a red silk tie 
with a blueand-white-striped shirt, and his navy 
blazer hung over the back of his chair. He was also 
trembling, blanched to a sickly paste color, with 
sweat beading on his forehead; I imagined an ulcer 
churning away under the spare tire. 

J recovered himself and rose unsteadily from his 
chair. He reached his hand across the desk. 

“Ms. Cullen. What an absolute delight.” 

I crossed to him and shook his hand quickly once. He 
cringed slightly at my cold skin but did not seem 
particularly surprised by it. 

“Mr. Jenks. Or do you prefer Scott?” 

He winced again. “Whatever you wish, of course.” 

“How about you call me Bella, and I’ll call you J?” 

“Like old friends,” he agreed, mopping a silk 
handkerchief across his forehead. He gestured for me 



722 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




to have a seat and took his own. “I must ask, am I 
finally meeting Mr. Jasper’s lovely wife?” 

I weighed that for a second. So this man knew Jasper, 
not Alice. Knew him, and seemed afraid of him, too. 
“His sister-in-law, actually.” 

He pursed his lips, as if he were grasping for 
meanings just as desperately as I was. 

“I trust Mr. Jasper is in good health?” he asked 
carefully. 

“I’m sure he is in excellent health. He’s on an 
extended vacation at the moment.” 

This seemed to clear up some of J’s confusion. He 
nodded to himself and templed his fingers. “Just so. 
You should have come to the main office. My 
assistants there would have put you straight through 
to me — no need to go through less hospitable 
channels.” 

I just nodded. I wasn’t sure why Alice had given me 
the ghetto address. 

“Ah, well, you’re here now. What can I do for you?” 

“Papers,” I said, trying to make my voice sound like I 
knew what I was talking about. 

“Certainly,” J agreed at once. “Are we talking birth 
certificates, death certificates, drivers’ licenses, 
passports, social security cards... ?” 

I took a deep breath and smiled. I owed Max big time. 



723 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




And then my smile faded. Alice had sent me here for a 
reason, and I was sure it was to protect Renesmee. 
Her last gift to me. The one thing she would know I 
needed. The only reason Renesmee would need a 
forger was if she was running. And the only reason 
Renesmee would be running was if we had lost. 

If Edward and I were running with her, she wouldn’t 
need these documents right away. I was sure IDs 
were something Edward knew how to get his hands 
on or make himself, and I was sure he knew ways to 
escape without them. We could run with her for 
thousands of miles. We could swim with her across 
an ocean. 

If we were around to save her. 

And all the secrecy to keep this out of Edward’s head. 
Because there was a good chance that everything he 
knew, Aro would know. If we lost, Aro would certainly 
get the information he craved before he destroyed 
Edward. 

It was as I had suspected. We couldn’t win. But we 
must have a good shot at killing Demetri before we 
lost, giving Renesmee the chance to run. 

My still heart felt like a boulder in my chest — a 
crushing weight. All my hope faded like fog in the 
sunshine. My eyes pricked. 

Who would I put this on? Charlie? But he was so 
defenselessly human. And how would I get Renesmee 
to him? He was not going to be anywhere close to that 
fight. So that left one person. There really had never 
been anyone else. 



724 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I’d thought this through so quickly that J didn’t 
notice my pause. 

“Two birth certificates, two passports, one driver’s 
license,” I said in a low, strained tone. 

If he noticed the change in my expression, he 
pretended otherwise. 

“The names?” 

“Jacob... Wolfe. And... Vanessa Wolfe.” Nessie seemed 
like an okay nickname for Vanessa. Jacob would get a 
kick out of the Wolfe thing. 

His pen scratched swiftly across a legal pad. “Middle 
names?” 

“Just put something generic in.” 

“If you prefer. Ages?” 

“Twenty-seven for the man, five for the girl.” Jacob 
could pull it off. He was a beast. And at the rate 
Renesmee was growing, I’d better estimate high. He 
could be her stepfather.... 

“I’ll need pictures if you prefer finished documents,” J 
said, interrupting my thoughts. 

“Mr. Jasper usually liked to finish them himself.” 

Well, that explained why J didn’t know what Alice 
looked like. 

“Hold on,” I said. 



This was luck. I had several family pictures shoved in 
my wallet, and the perfect one — 

725 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob holding Renesmee on the front porch steps — 
was only a month old. Alice had given it to me just a 
few days before... Oh. Maybe there wasn’t that much 
luck involved after all. Alice knew I had this picture. 
Maybe she’d even had some dim flash that I would 
need it before she gave it to me. 

“Here you go.” 

J examined the picture for a moment. “Your daughter 
is very like you.” 

I tensed. “She’s more like her father.” 

“Who is not this man.” He touched Jacob’s face. 

My eyes narrowed, and new sweat beads popped out 
on J’s shiny head. 

“No. That is a very close friend of the family.” 

“Forgive me,” he mumbled, and the pen began 
scratching again. “How soon will you need the 
documents?” 

“Can I get them in a week?” 

“That’s a rush order. It will cost twice as — but forgive 
me. I forgot with whom I was speaking.” 

Clearly, he knew Jasper. 

“Just give me a number.” 

He seemed hesitant to say it aloud, though I was 
sure, having dealt with Jasper, he must have known 
that price wasn’t really an object. Not even taking into 
consideration the bloated accounts that existed all 



726 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




over the world with the Cullens’ various names on 
them, there was enough cash stashed all over the 
house to keep a small country afloat for a decade; it 
reminded me of the way there were always a hundred 
fishhooks in the back of any drawer at Charlie’s 
house. I doubted anyone would even notice the small 
stack I’d removed in preparation for today. 

J wrote the price down on the bottom of the legal pad. 

I nodded calmly. I had more than that with me. I 
unclasped my bag again and counted out the right 
amount — I had it all paper-clipped into five-thousand- 
dollar increments, so it took no time at all. 

“There.” 

“Ah, Bella, you don’t really have to give me the entire 
sum now. It’s customary for you to save half to 
ensure delivery.” 

I smiled wanly at the nervous man. “But I trust you, 

J. Besides, I’ll give you a bonus — 

the same again when I get the documents.” 

“That’s not necessary, I assure you.” 

“Don’t worry about it.” It wasn’t like I could take it 
with me. “So I’ll meet you here next week at the same 
time?” 

He gave me a pained look. “Actually, I prefer to make 
such transactions in places unrelated to my various 
businesses.” 



727 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course. I’m sure I’m not doing this the way you 
expect.” 

“I’m used to having no expectations when it comes to 
the Cullen family.” He grimaced and then quickly 
composed his face again. “Shall we meet at eight 
o’clock a week from tonight at The Pacifico? It’s on 
Union Lake, and the food is exquisite.” 

“Perfect.” Not that I would be joining him for dinner. 
He actually wouldn’t like it much if I did. 

I rose and shook his hand again. This time he didn’t 
flinch. But he did seem to have some new worry on 
his mind. His mouth was pinched up, his back tense. 

“Will you have trouble with that deadline?” I asked. 

“What?” He looked up, taken off guard by my 
question. “The deadline? Oh, no. No worries at all. I 
will certainly have your documents done on time.” 

It would have been nice to have Edward here, so that 
I would know what J’s real worries were. I sighed. 
Keeping secrets from Edward was bad enough; having 
to be away from him was almost too much. 

“Then 111 see you in one week.” 



728 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





I heard the music before I was out of the car. Edward 
hadn’t touched his piano since the night Alice left. 
Now, as I shut the car door, I heard the song morph 
through a bridge and change into my lullaby. Edward 
was welcoming me home. 

I moved slowly as I pulled Renesmee — fast asleep; 
we’d been gone all day — from the car. We’d left Jacob 
at Charlie’s — he’d said he was going to catch a ride 
home with Sue. I wondered if he was trying to fill his 
head with enough trivia to crowd out the image of the 
way my face had looked when I’d walked through 
Charlie’s door. As I walked slowly to the Cullen house 
now, I recognized that the hope and uplift that 
seemed almost a visible aura around the big white 
house had been mine this morning, too. It felt alien to 
me now. 

I wanted to cry again, hearing Edward play for me. 
But I pulled it together. I didn’t want him to be 
suspicious. I would leave no clues in his mind for Aro 
if I could help it. Edward turned his head and smiled 
when I came in the door, but kept playing. 

“Welcome home,” he said, as if this was just any 
normal day. As if there weren’t twelve other vampires 
in the room involved in various pursuits, and a dozen 
more scattered around somewhere. “Did you have a 
good time with Charlie today?” 



729 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“Yes. Sorry I was gone so long. I stepped out to do a 
little Christmas shopping for Renesmee. I know it 
won’t be much of an event, but ...” I shrugged. 
Edward’s lips turned down. He quit playing and spun 
around on the bench so that his whole body was 
facing me. He put one hand on my waist and pulled 
me closer. “I hadn’t thought much about it. If you 
want to make an event of it — ” 

“No,” I interrupted him. I flinched internally at the 
idea of trying to fake more enthusiasm than the bare 
minimum. “I just didn’t want to let it pass without 
giving her something.” 

“Do I get to see?” 

“If you want. It’s only a little thing.” 

Renesmee was completely unconscious, snoring 
delicately against my neck. I envied her. It would have 
been nice to escape reality, even for just a few hours. 
Carefully, I fished the little velvet jewelry bag from my 
clutch without opening the purse enough for Edward 
to see the cash I was still carrying. 

“It caught my eye from the window of an antique store 
while I was driving by.” 

I shook the little golden locket into his palm. It was 
round with a slender vine border carved around the 
outside edge of the circle. Edward popped the tiny 
catch and looked inside. There was space for a small 
picture and, on the opposite side, an inscription in 
French. 



730 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you know what this says?” he asked in a different 
tone, more subdued than before. 

“The shopkeeper told me it said something along the 
lines of ‘more than my own life.’ Is that right?” 

“Yes, he had it right.” 

He looked up at me, his topaz eyes probing. I met his 
gaze for a moment, then pretended to be distracted by 
the television. 

“I hope she likes it,” I muttered. 

“Of course she will,” he said lightly, casually, and I 
was sure in that second that he knew I was keeping 
something from him. I was also sure that he had no 
idea of the specifics. 

“Let’s take her home,” he suggested, standing and 
putting his arm around my shoulders. I hesitated. 

“What?” he demanded. 

“I wanted to practice with Emmett a little. . . .” I’d lost 
the whole day to my vital errand; it made me feel 
behind. 

Emmett — on the sofa with Rose and holding the 
remote, of course — looked up and grinned in 
anticipation. “Excellent. The forest needs thinning.” 

Edward frowned at Emmett and then at me. 

“There’s plenty of time for that tomorrow,” he said. 



731 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t be ridiculous,” I complained. “There’s no such 
thing as plenty of time anymore. That concept does 
not exist. I have a lot to learn and — ” 

He cut me off. “Tomorrow.” 

And his expression was such that not even Emmett 
argued. 

I was surprised at how hard it was to go back to a 
routine that was, after all, brand new. But stripping 
away even that little bit of hope I’d been fostering 
made everything seem impossible. 

I tried to focus on the positives. There was a good 
chance that my daughter was going to survive what 
was coming, and Jacob, too. If they had a future, then 
that was a kind of victory, wasn’t it? Our little band 
must be going to hold their own if Jacob and 
Renesmee were going to have the opportunity to run 
in the first place. Yes, Alice’s strategy only made 
sense if we were going to put up a really good fight. 

So, a kind of victory there, too, considering that the 
Volturi had never been seriously challenged in 
millennia. 

It was not going to be the end of the world. Just the 
end of the Cullens. The end of Edward, the end of me. 

I preferred it that way — the last part anyway. I would 
not live without Edward again; if he was leaving this 
world, then I would be right behind him. 

I wondered idly now and then if there would be 
anything for us on the other side. I knew Edward 
didn’t really believe so, but Carlisle did. I couldn’t 



732 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




imagine it myself. On the other hand, I couldn’t 
imagine Edward not existing somehow, somewhere. If 
we could be together in any place, then that was a 
happy ending. 

And so the pattern of my days continued, just that 
much harder than before. We went to see Charlie on 
Christmas Day, Edward, Renesmee, Jacob, and I. All 
of Jacob’s pack were there, plus Sam, Emily, and 
Sue. It was a big help to have them there in Charlie’s 
little rooms, their huge, warm bodies wedged into 
corners around his sparsely decorated tree — you 
could see exactly where he’d gotten bored and quit — 
and overflowing his furniture. You could always count 
on werewolves to be buzzed about a coming fight, no 
matter how suicidal. The electricity of their 
excitement provided a nice current that disguised my 
utter lack of spirit. Edward was, as always, a better 
actor than I was. 

Renesmee wore the locket I’d given her at dawn, and 
in her jacket pocket was the MP3 

player Edward had given her — a tiny thing that held 
five thousand songs, already filled with Edward’s 
favorites. On her wrist was an intricately braided 
Quileute version of a promise ring. Edward had 
gritted his teeth over that one, but it didn’t bother me. 
Soon, so soon, I would be giving her to Jacob for 
safekeeping. How could I be bothered by any symbol 
of the commitment I was so relying on? 

Edward had saved the day by ordering a gift for 
Charlie, too. It had shown up yesterday 



733 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




— priority overnight shipping — and Charlie spent all 
morning reading the thick instruction manual to his 
new fishing sonar system. 

From the way the werewolves ate, Sue’s lunch spread 
must have been good. I wondered how the gathering 
would have looked to an outsider. Did we play our 
parts well enough? Would a stranger have thought us 
a happy circle of friends, enjoying the holiday with 
casual cheer? 

I think Edward and Jacob both were as relieved as I 
was when it was time to go. It felt odd to spend energy 
on the human faqade when there were so many more 
important things to be doing. I had a hard time 
concentrating. At the same time, this was perhaps the 
last time I would see Charlie. Maybe it was a good 
thing that I was too numb to really register that. 

I hadn’t seen my mother since the wedding, but I 
found I could only be glad for the gradual distancing 
that had begun two years ago. She was too fragile for 
my world. I didn’t want her to have any part of this. 
Charlie was stronger. Maybe even strong enough for a 
goodbye now, but I wasn’t. 

It was very quiet in the car; outside, the rain was just 
a mist, hovering on the edge between liquid and ice. 
Renesmee sat on my lap, playing with her locket, 
opening and closing it. I watched her and imagined 
the things I would say to Jacob right now if I didn’t 
have to keep my words out of Edward’s head. 

If it’s ever safe again, take her to Charlie. Tell him the 
whole story someday. Tell him how much I loved him, 
how I couldn’t bear to leave him even when my 

734 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




human life was over. Tell him he was the best father. 
Tell him to pass my love on to Renee, all my hopes 
that she will be happy and well. . . . 

I would have to give Jacob the documents before it 
was too late. I would give him a note for Charlie, too. 
And a letter for Renesmee. Something for her to read 
when I couldn’t tell her I loved her anymore. 

There was nothing unusual about the outside of the 
Cullen house as we pulled into the meadow, but I 
could hear some kind of subtle uproar inside. Many 
low voices murmured and growled. It sounded 
intense, and it sounded like an argument. I could 
pick out Carlisle’s voice and Amun’s more often than 
the others. Edward parked in front of the house 
rather than going around to the garage. We 
exchanged one wary glance before we got out of the 
car. 

Jacob’s stance changed; his face turned serious and 
careful. I guessed that he was in Alpha mode now. 
Obviously, something had happened, and he was 
going to get the information he and Sam would need. 

“Alistair is gone,” Edward murmured as we darted up 
the steps. 

Inside the front room, the main confrontation was 
physically apparent. Lining the walls was a ring of 
spectators, every vampire who had joined us, except 
for Alistair and the three involved in the quarrel. 

Esme, Kebi, and Tia were the closest to the three 
vampires in the center; in the middle of the room, 
Amun was hissing at Carlisle and Benjamin. 

Edward’s jaw tightened and he moved quickly to 

735 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Esme’s side, towing me by the hand. I clutched 
Renesmee tightly to my chest. 

“Amun, if you want to go, no one is forcing you to 
stay,” Carlisle said calmly. 

“You’re stealing half my coven, Carlisle!” Amun 
shrieked, stabbing one finger at Benjamin. “Is that 
why you called me here? To steal from me?” 

Carlisle sighed, and Benjamin rolled his eyes. 

“Yes, Carlisle picked a fight with the Volturi, 
endangered his whole family, just to lure me here to 
my death,” Benjamin said sarcastically. “Be 
reasonable, Amun. I’m committed to do the right 
thing here — I’m not joining any other coven. You can 
do whatever you want, of course, as Carlisle has 
pointed out.” 

“This won’t end well,” Amun growled. “Alistair was the 
only sane one here. We should all be running.” 

“Think of who you’re calling sane,” Tia murmured in a 
quiet aside. 

“We’re all going to be slaughtered!” 

“It’s not going to come to a fight,” Carlisle said in a 
firm voice. 

“You say!” 

“If it does, you can always switch sides, Amun. I’m 
sure the Volturi will appreciate your help.” 

Amun sneered at him. “Perhaps that is the answer.” 



736 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Carlisle’s answer was soft and sincere. “I wouldn’t 
hold that against you, Amun. We have been friends 
for a long time, but I would never ask you to die for 
me.” 

Amun’s voice was more controlled, too. “But you’re 
taking my Benjamin down with you.” 

Carlisle put his hand on Amun’s shoulder; Amun 
shook it off. 

“I’ll stay, Carlisle, but it might be to your detriment. I 
will join them if that’s the road to survival. You’re all 
fools to think that you can defy the Volturi.” He 
scowled, then sighed, glanced at Renesmee and me, 
and added in an exasperated tone, “I will witness that 
the child has grown. That’s nothing but the truth. 
Anyone would see that.” 

“That’s all we’ve ever asked.” 

Amun grimaced, “But not all that you are getting, it 
seems.” He turned on Benjamin. “I gave you life. 
You’re wasting it.” 

Benjamin’s face looked colder than I’d ever seen it; 
the expression contrasted oddly with his boyish 
features. “It’s a pity you couldn’t replace my will with 
your own in the process; perhaps then you would 
have been satisfied with me.” 

Amun’s eyes narrowed. He gestured abruptly to Kebi, 
and they stalked past us out the front door. 

“He’s not leaving,” Edward said quietly to me, “but 
he’ll be keeping his distance even more from now on. 



737 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He wasn’t bluffing when he spoke of joining the 
Volturi.” 

“Why did Alistair go?” I whispered. 

“No one can be positive; he didn’t leave a note. From 
his mutters, it’s been clear that he thinks a fight is 
inevitable. Despite his demeanor, he actually does 
care too much for Carlisle to stand with the Volturi. I 
suppose he decided the danger was too much.” 

Edward shrugged. 

Though our conversation was clearly just between the 
two of us, of course everyone could hear it. Eleazar 
answered Edward’s comment like it had been meant 
for all. 

“From the sound of his mumblings, it was a bit more 
than that. We haven’t spoken much of the Volturi 
agenda, but Alistair worried that no matter how 
decisively we can prove your innocence, the Volturi 
will not listen. He thinks they will find an excuse to 
achieve their goals here.” 

The vampires glanced uneasily at one another. The 
idea that the Volturi would manipulate their own 
sacrosanct law for gain was not a popular idea. Only 
the Romanians were composed, their small half- 
smiles ironic. They seemed amused at how the others 
wanted to think well of their ancient enemies. 

Many low discussions began at the same time, but it 
was the Romanians I listened to. Maybe because the 
fair-haired Vladimir kept shooting glances in my 
direction. 



738 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I do so hope Alistair was right about this,” Stefan 
murmured to Vladimir. “No matter the outcome, word 
will spread. It’s time our world saw the Volturi for 
what they’ve become. They’ll never fall if everyone 
believes this nonsense about them protecting our way 
of life.” 

“At least when we ruled, we were honest about what 
we were,” Vladimir replied. Stefan nodded. “We never 
put on white hats and called ourselves saints.” 

“I’m thinking the time has come to fight,” Vladimir 
said. “How can you imagine we’ll ever find a better 
force to stand with? Another chance this good?” 

“Nothing is impossible. Maybe someday — ” 

“We’ve been waiting for fifteen hundred years, Stefan. 
And they’ve only gotten stronger with the years.” 
Vladimir paused and looked at me again. He showed 
no surprise when he saw that I was watching him, 
too. “If the Volturi win this conflict, they will leave 
with more power than they came with. With every 
conquest they add to their strengths. Think of what 
that newborn alone could give them” — he jerked his 
chin toward me 

— “and she is barely discovering her gifts. And the 
earth-mover.” Vladimir nodded toward Benjamin, who 
stiffened. Almost everyone was eavesdropping on the 
Romanians now, like me. “With their witch twins they 
have no need of the illusionist or the fire touch.” His 
eyes moved to Zafrina, then Kate. 



739 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Stefan looked at Edward. “Nor is the mind reader is 
exactly necessary. But I see your point. Indeed, they 
will gain much if they win.” 

“More than we can afford to have them gain, wouldn’t 
you agree?” 

Stefan sighed. “I think I must agree. And that 
means... ” 

“That we must stand against them while there is still 
hope.” 

“If we can just cripple them, even, expose them . . .” 

“Then, someday, others will finish the job.” 

“And our long vendetta will be repaid. At last.” 

They locked eyes for a moment and then murmured 
in unison. “It seems the only way.” 

“So we fight,” Stefan said. 

Though I could see that they were torn, self- 
preservation warring with revenge, the smile they 
exchanged was full of anticipation. 

“We fight,” Vladimir agreed. 

I suppose it was a good thing; like Alistair, I was sure 
the battle was impossible to avoid. In that case, two 
more vampires fighting on our side could only help. 
But the Romanians’ decision still made me shudder. 

“We will fight, too,” Tia said, her usually grave voice 
more solemn than ever. “We believe the Volturi will 



740 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




overstep their authority. We have no wish to belong to 
them.” 

Her eyes lingered on her mate. 

Benjamin grinned and threw an impish glance toward 
the Romanians. “Apparently, I’m a hot commodity. It 
appears I have to win the right to be free.” 

“This won’t be the first time I’ve fought to keep myself 
from a king’s rule,” Garrett said in a teasing tone. He 
walked over and clapped Benjamin on the back. 
“Here’s to freedom from oppression.” 

“We stand with Carlisle,” Tanya said. “And we fight 
with him.” 

The Romanians’ pronouncement seemed to have 
made the others feel the need to declare themselves 
as well. 

“We have not decided,” Peter said. He looked down at 
his tiny companion; Charlotte’s lips were set in 
dissatisfaction. It looked like she’d made her decision. 
I wondered what it was. 

“The same goes for me,” Randall said. 

“And me,” Mary added. 

“The packs will fight with the Cullens,” Jacob said 
suddenly. “We’re not afraid of vampires,” he added 
with a smirk. 

“Children,” Peter muttered. 

“Infants,” Randall corrected. 



741 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob grinned tauntingly. 

“Well, I’m in, too,” Maggie said, shrugging out from 
under Siobhan’s restraining hand. 

“I know truth is on Carlisle’s side. I can’t ignore that.” 

Siobhan stared at the junior member of her coven 
with worried eyes. “Carlisle,” she said as if they were 
alone, ignoring the suddenly formal feel of the 
gathering, the unexpected outburst of declarations, “I 
don’t want this to come to a fight.” 

“Nor do I, Siobhan. You know that’s the last thing I 
want.” He half-smiled. “Perhaps you should 
concentrate on keeping it peaceful.” 

“You know that won’t help,” she said. 

I remembered Rose and Carlisle’s discussion of the 
Irish leader; Carlisle believed that Siobhan had some 
subtle but powerful gift to make things go her way — 
and yet Siobhan didn’t believe it herself. 

“It couldn’t hurt,” Carlisle said. 

Siobhan rolled her eyes. “Shall I visualize the outcome 
I desire?” she asked sarcastically. 

Carlisle was openly grinning now. “If you don’t mind.” 

“Then there is no need for my coven to declare itself, 
is there?” she retorted. “Since there is no possibility of 
a fight.” She put her hand back on Maggie’s shoulder, 
pulling the girl closer to her. Siobhan’s mate, Liam, 
stood silent and expressionless. Almost everyone else 
in the room looked mystified by Carlisle and 



742 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Siobhan’s clearly joking exchange, but they didn’t 
explain themselves. 

That was the end of the dramatic speeches for the 
night. The group slowly dispersed, some off to hunt, 
some to while away the time with Carlisle’s books or 
televisions or computers. 

Edward, Renesmee, and I went to hunt. Jacob tagged 
along. 

“Stupid leeches,” he muttered to himself when we got 
outside. “Think they’re so superior.” He snorted. 

“They’ll be shocked when the infants save their 
superior lives, won’t they?” Edward said. 

Jake smiled and punched his shoulder. “Hell yeah, 
they will.” 

This wasn’t our last hunting trip. We all would hunt 
again nearer to the time we expected the Volturi. As 
the deadline was not exact, we were planning to stay 
a few nights out in the big baseball clearing Alice had 
seen, just in case. All we knew was that they would 
come the day that the snow stuck to the ground. We 
didn’t want the Volturi too close to town, and Demetri 
would lead them to wherever we were. I wondered 
who he would track in, and guessed that it would be 
Edward since he couldn’t track me. I thought about 
Demetri while I hunted, paying little attention to my 
prey or the drifting snowflakes that had finally 
appeared but were melting before they touched the 
rocky soil. Would Demetri realize that he couldn’t 
track me? What would he make of that? 



743 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




What would Aro? Or was Edward wrong? There were 
those little exceptions to what I could withstand, 
those ways around my shield. Everything that was 
outside my mind was vulnerable — open to the things 
Jasper, Alice, and Benjamin could do. Maybe 
Demetri’s talent worked a little differently, too. 

And then I had a thought that brought me up short. 
The half-drained elk dropped from my hands to the 
stony ground. Snowflakes vaporized a few inches from 
the warm body with tiny sizzling sounds. I stared 
blankly at my bloody hands. Edward saw my reaction 
and hurried to my side, leaving his own kill 
undrained. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked in a low voice, his eyes 
sweeping the forest around us, looking for whatever 
had triggered my behavior. 

“Renesmee,” I choked. 

“She’s just through those trees,” he reassured me. “I 
can hear both her thoughts and Jacob’s. She’s fine.” 

“That’s not what I meant,” I said. “I was thinking 
about my shield — you really think it’s worth 
something, that it will help somehow. I know the 
others are hoping that I’ll be able to shield Zafrina 
and Benjamin, even if I can only keep it up for a few 
seconds at a time. What if that’s a mistake? What if 
your trust in me is the reason that we fail?” 

My voice was edging toward hysteria, though I had 
enough control to keep it low. I didn’t want to upset 
Renesmee. 



744 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella, what brought this on? Of course, it’s 
wonderful that you can protect yourself, but you’re 
not responsible for saving anyone. Don’t distress 
yourself needlessly.” 

“But what if I can’t protect anything?” I whispered in 
gasps. “This thing I do, it’s faulty, it’s erratic! There’s 
no rhyme or reason to it. Maybe it will do nothing 
against Alec at all.” 

“Shh,” he hushed me. “Don’t panic. And don’t worry 
about Alec. What he does is no different than what 
Jane or Zafrina does. It’s just an illusion — he can’t get 
inside your head any more than I can.” 

“But Renesmee does!” I hissed frantically through my 
teeth. “It seemed so natural, I never questioned it 
before. It’s always been just part of who she is. But 
she puts her thoughts right into my head just like she 
does with everyone else. My shield has holes, 

Edward!” 

I stared at him desperately, waiting for him to 
acknowledge my terrible revelation. His lips were 
pursed, as if he was trying to decide how to phrase 
something. His expression was perfectly relaxed. 

“You thought of this a long time ago, didn’t you?” I 
demanded, feeling like an idiot for my months of 
overlooking the obvious. 

He nodded, a faint smile pulling up one corner of his 
mouth. “The first time she touched you.” 



745 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I sighed at my own stupidity, but his calm had 
mellowed me some. “And this doesn’t bother you? You 
don’t see it as a problem?” 

“I have two theories, one more likely than the other.” 

“Give me the least likely first.” 

“Well, she’s your daughter,” he pointed out. 
“Genetically half you. I used to tease you about how 
your mind was on a different frequency than the rest 
of ours. Perhaps she runs on the same.” 

This didn’t work for me. “But you hear her mind just 
fine. Everyone hears her mind. And what if Alec runs 
on a different frequency? What if — ?” 

He put a finger to my lips. “I’ve considered that. 

Which is why I think this next theory is much more 
likely.” 

I gritted my teeth and waited. 

“Do you remember what Carlisle said to me about 
her, right after she showed you that first memory?” 

Of course I remembered. “He said, ‘It’s an interesting 
twist. Like she’s doing the exact opposite of what you 
can.’” 

“Yes. And so I wondered. Maybe she took your talent 
and flipped it, too.” 

I considered that. 

“You keep everyone out,” he began. 

“And no one keeps her out?” I finished hesitantly. 



746 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s my theory,” he said. “And if she can get into 
your head, I doubt there’s a shield on the planet who 
could keep her at bay. That will help. From what 
we’ve seen, no one can doubt the truth of her 
thoughts once they’ve allowed her to show them. And 
I think no one can keep her from showing them, if she 
gets close enough. If Aro allows her to explain. . . .” 

I shuddered to think of Renesmee so close to Aro’s 
greedy, milky eyes. 

“Well,” he said, rubbing my tight shoulders. “At least 
there’s nothing that can stop him from seeing the 
truth.” 

“But is the truth enough to stop him?” I murmured. 
For that, Edward had no answer. 



747 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




DEADLINE 




“Headed out?” Edward asked, his tone nonchalant. 
There was a sort of forced composure about his 
expression. He hugged Renesmee just a little bit 
tighter to his chest. 

“Yes, a few last-minute things...,” I responded just as 
casually. He smiled my favorite smile. “Hurry back to 
me.” 

“Always.” 

I took his Volvo again, wondering if he’d read the 
odometer after my last errand. How much had he 
pieced together? That I had a secret, absolutely. 

Would he have deduced the reason why I didn’t 
confide in him? Did he guess that Aro might soon 
know everything he knew? I thought Edward could 
have come to that conclusion, which explained why 
he had demanded no reasons from me. I guessed he 
was trying not to speculate too much, trying to keep 
my behavior off his mind. Had he put this together 
with my odd performance the morning after Alice left, 
burning my book in the fire? I didn’t know if he could 
have made that leap. 

It was a dreary afternoon, already dark as dusk. I 
sped through the gloom, my eyes on the heavy clouds. 
Would it snow tonight? Enough to layer the ground 
and create the scene from Alice’s vision? Edward 
estimated that we had about two more days. Then we 
would set ourselves in the clearing, drawing the 



748 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



Volturi to our chosen place. As I headed through the 
darkening forest, I considered my last trip to Seattle. I 
thought I knew Alice’s purpose in sending me to the 
dilapidated drop point where J. Jenks referred his 
shadier clients. If I’d gone to one of his other, more 
legitimate offices, would I have ever known what to 
ask for? If I’d met him as Jason Jenks or Jason Scott, 
legitimate lawyer, would I ever have unearthed J. 
Jenks, purveyor of illegal documents? 

I’d had to go the route that made it clear I was up to 
no good. That was my clue. It was black when I pulled 
into the parking lot of the restaurant a few minutes 
early, ignoring the eager valets by the entrance. I 
popped in my contacts and then went to wait for J 
inside the restaurant. Though I was in a hurry to be 
done with this depressing necessity and back with my 
family, J seemed careful to keep himself untainted by 
his baser associations; I had a feeling a handoff in the 
dark parking lot would offend his sensibilities. 

I gave the name Jenks at the podium, and the 
obsequious maltre d’ led me upstairs to a small 
private room with a fire crackling in a stone hearth. 

He took the calf-length ivory trench coat I’d worn to 
disguise the fact that I was wearing Alice’s idea of 
appropriate attire, and gasped quietly at my oyster 
satin cocktail dress. I couldn’t help being a little 
flattered; I still wasn’t used to being beautiful to 
everyone rather than just Edward. The maitre d’ 
stuttered half-formed compliments as he backed 
unsteadily from the room. I stood by the fire to wait, 
holding my fingers close to the flame to warm them a 
little before the inevitable handshake. Not that J 



749 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




wasn’t obviously aware that there was something up 
with the Cullens, but it was still a good habit to 
practice. For one half second, I wondered what it 
would feel like to put my hand in the fire. What it 
would feel like when I burned. . . . 

J’s entrance distracted my morbidity. The maitre d’ 
took his coat, too, and it was evident that I was not 
the only one who had dressed up for this meeting. 

“I’m so sorry I’m late,” J said as soon as we were 
alone. 

“No, you’re exactly on time.” 

He held out his hand, and as we shook I could feel 
that his fingers were still quite noticeably warmer 
than mine. It didn’t seem to bother him. 

“You look stunning, if I may be so bold, Mrs. Cullen.” 

“Thank you, J. Please, call me Bella.” 

“I must say, it’s a different experience working with 
you than it is with Mr. Jasper. Much less... 
unsettling.” He smiled hesitantly. 

“Really? I’ve always found Jasper to have a very 
soothing presence.” 

His eyebrows pulled together. “Is that so?” he 
murmured politely while clearly still in disagreement. 
How odd. What had Jasper done to this man? 

“Have you known Jasper long?” 

He sighed, looking uncomfortable. “I’ve been working 
with Mr. Jasper for more than twenty years, and my 



750 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




old partner knew him for fifteen years before that.... 
He never changes.” J cringed delicately. 

“Yeah, Jasper’s kind of funny that way.” 

J shook his head as if he could shake away the 
disturbing thoughts. “Won’t you have a seat, Bella?” 

“Actually, I’m in a bit of a hurry. I’ve got a long drive 
home.” As I spoke, I took the thick white envelope 
with his bonus from my bag and handed it to him. 

“Oh,” he said, a little catch of disappointment in his 
voice. He tucked the envelope into an inside pocket of 
his jacket without bothering to check the amount. “I 
was hoping we could speak for just a moment.” 

“About?” I asked curiously. 

“Well, let me get you your items first. I want to make 
sure you’re satisfied.” 

He turned, placed his briefcase on the table, and 
popped the latches. He took out a legalsized manila 
envelope. Though I had no idea what I should be 
looking for, I opened the envelope and gave the 
contents a cursory glance. J had flipped Jacob’s 
picture and changed the coloring so that it wasn’t 
immediately evident that it was the same picture on 
both his passport and driver’s license. Both looked 
perfectly sound to me, but that meant little. I glanced 
at the picture on Vanessa Wolfe’s passport for a 
fraction of a second, and then looked away quickly, a 
lump rising in my throat. 

“Thank you,” I told him. 



751 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




His eyes narrowed slightly, and I felt he was 
disappointed that my examination was not more 
thorough. “I can assure you every piece is perfect. All 
will pass the most rigorous scrutiny by experts.” 

“I’m sure they are. I truly appreciate what you’ve done 
for me, J.” 

“It’s been my pleasure, Bella. In the future, feel free to 
come to me for anything the Cullen family needs.” He 
didn’t even hint at it really, but this sounded like an 
invitation for me to take over Jasper’s place as 
liaison. 

“There was something you wanted to discuss?” 

“Er, yes. It’s a bit delicate. . . .” He gestured to the 
stone hearth with a questioning expression. I sat on 
the edge of the stone, and he sat beside me. Sweat 
was dewing up on his forehead again, and he pulled a 
blue silk handkerchief from his pocket and began 
mopping. 

“You are the sister of Mr. Jasper’s wife? Or married to 
his brother?” he asked. 

“Married to his brother,” I clarified, wondering where 
this was leading. 

“You would be Mr. Edward’s bride, then?” 

“Yes.” 

He smiled apologetically. “I’ve seen all the names 
many times, you see. My belated congratulations. It’s 
nice that Mr. Edward has found such a lovely partner 
after all this time.” 



752 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thank you very much.” 

He paused, dabbing at the sweat. “Over the years, you 
might imagine that I’ve developed a very healthy level 
of respect for Mr. Jasper and the entire family.” 

I nodded cautiously. 

He took a deep breath and then exhaled without 
speaking. 

“J, please just say whatever you need to.” 

He took another breath and then mumbled quickly, 
slurring the words together. 

“If you could just assure me that you are not planning 
to kidnap the little girl from her father, I would sleep 
better tonight.” 

“Oh,” I said, stunned. It took me a minute to 
understand the erroneous conclusion he’d drawn. 

“Oh no. It’s nothing like that at all.” I smiled weakly, 
trying to reassure him. 

“I’m simply preparing a safe place for her in case 
something were to happen to my husband and me.” 

His eyes narrowed. “Are you expecting something to 
happen?” He blushed, then apologized. “Not that it’s 
any of my business.” 

I watched the red flush spread behind the delicate 
membrane of his skin and was glad — 

as I often was — that I was not the average newborn. J 
seemed a nice enough man, criminal behavior aside, 
and it would have been a shame to kill him. 



753 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You never know.” I sighed. 

He frowned. “May I wish you the best of luck, then. 
And please don’t be put out with me, my dear, but... 
if Mr. Jasper should come to me and ask what names 
I put on these documents . . .” 

“Of course you should tell him immediately. I’d like 
nothing better than to have Mr. Jasper fully aware of 
our entire transaction.” 

My transparent sincerity seemed to ease a bit of his 
tension. 

“Very good,” he said. “And I can’t prevail upon you to 
stay for dinner?” 

“I’m sorry, J. I’m short on time at present.” 

“Then, again, my best wishes for your health and 
happiness. Anything at all the Cullen family needs, 
please don’t hesitate to call on me, Bella.” 

“Thank you, J.” 

I left with my contraband, glancing back to see that J 
was staring after me, his expression a mixture of 
anxiety and regret. 

The return trip took me less time. The night was 
black, and so I turned off my headlights and floored 
it. When I got back to the house, most of the cars, 
including Alice’s Porsche and my Ferrari, were 
missing. The traditional vampires were going as far 
away as possible to satiate their thirst. I tried not to 
think of their hunting in the night, cringing at the 
mental picture of their victims. 



754 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Only Kate and Garrett were in the front room, arguing 
playfully about the nutritional value of animal blood. I 
inferred that Garrett had attempted a hunting trip 
vegetarianstyle and found it difficult. Edward must 
have taken Renesmee home to sleep. Jacob, no doubt, 
was in the woods close by the cottage. The rest of my 
family must have been hunting as well. Perhaps they 
were out with the other Denalis. 

Which basically gave me the house to myself, and I 
was quick to take advantage. I could smell that I was 
the first one to enter Alice and Jasper’s room in a long 
while, maybe the first since the night they’d left us. I 
rooted silently through their huge closet until I found 
the right sort of bag. It must have been Alice’s; it was 
a small black leather backpack, the kind that was 
usually used as a purse, little enough that even 
Renesmee could carry it without looking out of place. 
Then I raided their petty cash, taking about twice the 
yearly income for the average American household. I 
guessed my theft would be less noticeable here than 
anywhere else in the house, since this room made 
everyone sad. The envelope with the fake passports 
and IDs went into the bag on top of the money. Then I 
sat on the edge of Alice and Jasper’s bed and looked 
at the pitifully insignificant package that was all I 
could give my daughter and my best friend to help 
save their lives. I slumped against the bedpost, feeling 
helpless. But what else could I do? 

I sat there for several minutes with my head bowed 
before the inkling of a good idea came to me. 

If... 



755 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




If I was to assume that Jacob and Renesmee were 
going to escape, then that included the assumption 
that Demetri would be dead. That gave any survivors 
a little breathing room, Alice and Jasper included. 

So why couldn’t Alice and Jasper help Jacob and 
Renesmee? If they were reunited, Renesmee would 
have the best protection imaginable. There was no 
reason why this couldn’t happen, except for the fact 
that Jake and Renesmee both were blind spots for 
Alice. How would she begin to look for them? 

I deliberated for a moment, then left the room, 
crossing the hall to Carlisle and Esme’s suite. As 
usual, Esme’s desk was stacked with plans and 
blueprints, everything neatly laid out in tall piles. The 
desk had a slew of pigeonholes above the work 
surface; in one was a box of stationery. I took a fresh 
sheet of paper and a pen. Then I stared at the blank 
ivory page for a full five minutes, concentrating on my 
decision. Alice might not be able to see Jacob or 
Renesmee, but she could see me. I visualized her 
seeing this moment, hoping desperately that she 
wasn’t too busy to pay attention. 

Slowly, deliberately, I wrote the words RIO DE 
JANEIRO in all caps across the page. Rio seemed the 
best place to send them: It was far away from here, 
Alice and Jasper were already in South America at 
last report, and it wasn’t like our old problems had 
ceased to exist just because we had worse problems 
now. There was still the mystery of Renesmee’s 
future, the terror of her racing age. We’d been headed 
south anyway. Now it would be Jacob’s, and hopefully 
Alice’s, job to search for the legends. I bowed my head 

756 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




again against a sudden urge to sob, clenching my 
teeth together. It was better that Renesmee go on 
without me. But I already missed her so much I could 
barely stand it. 

I took a deep breath and put the note at the bottom of 
the duffel bag, where Jacob would find it soon 
enough. 

I crossed my fingers that — since it was unlikely that 
his high school offered Portuguese 

— Jake had at least taken Spanish as his language 
elective. 

There was nothing left now but waiting. 

For two days, Edward and Carlisle stayed in the 
clearing where Alice had seen the Volturi arrive. It 
was the same killing field where Victoria’s newborns 
had attacked last summer. I wondered if it felt 
repetitive to Carlisle, like deja vu. For me, it would be 
all new. This time Edward and I would stand with our 
family. 

We could only imagine that the Volturi would be 
tracking either Edward or Carlisle. I wondered if it 
would surprise them that their prey didn’t run. Would 
that make them wary? I couldn’t imagine the Volturi 
ever feeling a need for caution. Though I was — 
hopefully — invisible to Demetri, I stayed with Edward. 
Of course. We only had a few hours left to be 
together. 

Edward and I had not had a last grand scene of 
farewell, nor did I plan one. To speak the word was to 



757 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




make it final. It would be the same as typing the 
words The End on the last page of a manuscript. So 
we did not say our goodbyes, and we stayed very close 
to each other, always touching. Whatever end found 
us, it would not find us separated. We set up a tent 
for Renesmee a few yards back into the protective 
forest, and then there was more deja vu as we found 
ourselves camping in the cold again with Jacob. It 
was almost impossible to believe how much things 
had changed since last June. Seven months ago, our 
triangular relationship seemed impossible, three 
different kinds of heartbreak that could not be 
avoided. Now everything was in perfect balance. It 
seemed hideously ironic that the puzzle pieces would 
fit together just in time for all of them to be destroyed. 

It started to snow again the night before New Year’s 
Eve. This time, the tiny flakes did not dissolve into 
the stony ground of the clearing. While Renesmee and 
Jacob slept — 

Jacob snoring so loudly I wondered how Renesmee 
didn’t wake — the snow made first a thin icing over the 
earth, then built into thicker drifts. By the time the 
sun rose, the scene from Alice’s vision was complete. 
Edward and I held hands as we stared across the 
glittering white field, and neither of us spoke. 

Through the early morning, the others gathered, their 
eyes bearing mute evidence of their preparations — 
some light gold, some rich crimson. Soon after we all 
were together, we could hear the wolves moving in the 
woods. Jacob emerged from the tent, leaving 
Renesmee still sleeping, to join them. 



758 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward and Carlisle were arraying the others into a 
loose formation, our witnesses to the sides like 
galleries. 

I watched from a distance, waiting by the tent for 
Renesmee to wake. When she did, I helped her dress 
in the clothes I’d carefully picked out two days before. 
Clothes that looked frilly and feminine but that were 
actually sturdy enough to not show any wear — 

even if a person wore them while riding a giant 
werewolf through a couple of states. Over her jacket I 
put on the black leather backpack with the 
documents, the money, the clue, and my love notes 
for her and Jacob, Charlie and Renee. She was strong 
enough that it was no burden to her. 

Her eyes were huge as she read the agony on my face. 
But she had guessed enough not to ask me what I 
was doing. 

“I love you,” I told her. “More than anything.” 

“I love you, too, Momma,” she answered. She touched 
the locket at her neck, which now held a tiny photo of 
her, Edward, and me. “We’ll always be together.” 

“In our hearts we’ll always be together,” I corrected in 
a whisper as quiet as a breath. 

“But when the time comes today, you have to leave 
me.” 

Her eyes widened, and she touched her hand to my 
cheek. The silent no was louder than if she’d shouted 
it. 



759 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I fought to swallow; my throat felt swollen. “Will you 
do it for me? Please?” 

She pressed her fingers harder to my face. Why? 

“I can’t tell you,” I whispered. “But you’ll understand 
soon. I promise.” 

In my head, I saw Jacob’s face. 

I nodded, then pulled her fingers away. “Don’t think 
of it,” I breathed into her ear. 

“Don’t tell Jacob until I tell you to run, okay?” 

This she understood. She nodded, too. 

I took from my pocket one last detail. 

While packing Renesmee’s things, an unexpected 
sparkle of color had caught my eye. A chance ray of 
sun through the skylight had hit the jewels on the 
ancient precious box stuffed high overhead on a shelf 
in an untouched corner. I considered it for a moment 
and then shrugged. After putting together Alice’s 
clues, I couldn’t hope that the coming confrontation 
would be resolved peacefully. But why not try to start 
things out as friendly as possible? I asked myself. 
What could it hurt? So I guess I must have had some 
hope left after all — blind, senseless hope — because I’d 
scaled the shelves and retrieved Aro’s wedding 
present to me. 

Now I fastened the thick gold rope around my neck 
and felt the weight of the enormous diamond nestle 
into the hollow of my throat. 



760 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Pretty,” Renesmee whispered. Then she wrapped her 
arms like a vise around my neck. I squeezed her 
against my chest. Interlocked this way, I carried her 
out of the tent and to the clearing. 

Edward cocked one eyebrow as I approached, but 
otherwise did not remark on my accessory or 
Renesmee’s. He just put his arms tight around us 
both for one long moment and then, with a deep sigh, 
let us go. I couldn’t see a goodbye anywhere in his 
eyes. Maybe he had more hope for something after 
this life than he’d let on. We took our place, 

Renesmee climbing agilely onto my back to leave my 
hands free. I stood a few feet behind the front line 
made up by Carlisle, Edward, Emmett, Rosalie, 

Tanya, Kate, and Eleazar. Close beside me were 
Benjamin and Zafrina; it was my job to protect them 
as long as I was able. They were our best offensive 
weapons. If the Volturi were the ones who could not 
see, even for a few moments, that would change 
everything. 

Zafrina was rigid and fierce, with Senna almost a 
mirror image at her side. Benjamin sat on the ground, 
his palms pressed to the dirt, and muttered quietly 
about fault lines. Last night, he’d strewn piles of 
boulders in natural-looking, now snow-covered heaps 
all along the back of the meadow. They weren’t 
enough to injure a vampire, but hopefully enough to 
distract one. 

The witnesses clustered to our left and right, some 
nearer than others — those who had declared 
themselves were the closest. I noticed Siobhan 
rubbing her temples, her eyes closed in 

761 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




concentration; was she humoring Carlisle? Trying to 
visualize a diplomatic resolution? 

In the woods behind us, the invisible wolves were still 
and ready; we could only hear their heavy panting, 
their beating hearts. 

The clouds rolled in, diffusing the light so that it 
could have been morning or afternoon. Edward’s eyes 
tightened as he scrutinized the view, and I was sure 
he was seeing this exact scene for the second time — 
the first time being Alice’s vision. It would look just 
the same when the Volturi arrived. We only had 
minutes or seconds left now. All our family and allies 
braced themselves. 

From the forest, the huge russet Alpha wolf came 
forward to stand at my side; it must have been too 
hard for him to keep his distance from Renesmee 
when she was in such immediate danger. 

Renesmee reached out to twine her fingers in the fur 
over his massive shoulder, and her body relaxed a 
little bit. She was calmer with Jacob close. I felt a tiny 
bit better, too. As long Jacob was with Renesmee, she 
would be all right. 

Without risking a glance behind, Edward reached 
back to me. I stretched my arm forward so that I 
could grip his hand. He squeezed my fingers. 

Another minute ticked by, and I found myself 
straining to hear some sound of approach. And then 
Edward stiffened and hissed low between his 
clenched teeth. His eyes focused on the forest due 
north of where we stood. 



762 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




We stared where he did, and waited as the last 
seconds passed. 



763 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




BLOODLUST 



They came with pageantry, with a kind of beauty. 

They came in a rigid, formal formation. They moved 
together, but it was not a march; they flowed in 
perfect synchronicity from the trees — a dark, 
unbroken shape that seemed to hover a few inches 
above the white snow, so smooth was the advance. 

The outer perimeter was gray; the color darkened with 
each line of bodies until the heart of the formation 
was deepest black. Every face was cowled, shadowed. 
The faint brushing sound of their feet was so regular 
it was like music, a complicated beat that never 
faltered. 

At some sign I did not see — or perhaps there was no 
sign, only millennia of practice — 

the configuration folded outward. The motion was too 
stiff, too square to resemble the opening of a flower, 
though the color suggested that; it was the opening of 
a fan, graceful but very angular. The gray-cloaked 
figures spread to the flanks while the darker forms 
surged precisely forward in the center, each 
movement closely controlled. Their progress was slow 
but deliberate, with no hurry, no tension, no anxiety. 
It was the pace of the invincible. 

This was almost my old nightmare. The only thing 
lacking was the gloating desire I’d seen on the faces in 
my dream — the smiles of vindictive joy. Thus far, the 
Volturi were too disciplined to show any emotion at 



764 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



all. They also showed no surprise or dismay at the 
collection of vampires that waited for them here — a 
collection that looked suddenly disorganized and 
unprepared in comparison. They showed no surprise 
at the giant wolf that stood in our midst. 

I couldn’t help counting. There were thirty-two of 
them. Even if you did not count the two drifting, 
waifish black-cloaked figures in the very back, who I 
took to be the wives 

— their protected position suggesting that they would 
not be involved in the attack — we were still 
outnumbered. There were just nineteen of us who 
would fight, and then seven more to watch as we were 
destroyed. Even counting the ten wolves, they had us. 

“The redcoats are coming, the redcoats are coming,” 
Garrett muttered mysteriously to himself and then 
chuckled once. He slid one step closer to Kate. 

“They did come,” Vladimir whispered to Stefan. 

“The wives,” Stefan hissed back. “The entire guard. All 
of them together. It’s well we didn’t try Volterra.” 

And then, as if their numbers were not enough, while 
the Volturi slowly and majestically advanced, more 
vampires began entering the clearing behind them. 
The faces in this seemingly endless influx of vampires 
were the antithesis to the Volturi’s expressionless 
discipline — they wore a kaleidoscope of emotions. At 
first there was the shock and even some anxiety as 
they saw the unexpected force awaiting them. But 
that concern passed quickly; they were secure in their 
overwhelming numbers, secure in their position 

765 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




behind the unstoppable Volturi force. Their features 
returned to the expression they’d worn before we’d 
surprised them. 

It was easy enough to understand their mindset — the 
faces were that explicit. This was an angry mob, 
whipped to a frenzy and slavering for justice. I did not 
fully realize the vampire world’s feeling toward the 
immortal children before I read these faces. It was 
clear that this motley, disorganized horde — more than 
forty vampires altogether 

— was the Volturi’s own kind of witness. When we 
were dead, they would spread the word that the 
criminals had been eradicated, that the Volturi had 
acted with nothing but impartiality. Most looked like 
they hoped for more than just an opportunity to 
witness — 

they wanted to help tear and burn. 

We didn’t have a prayer. Even if we could somehow 
neutralize the Volturi’s advantages, they could still 
bury us in bodies. Even if we killed Demetri, Jacob 
would not be able to outrun this. 

I could feel it as the same comprehension sunk in 
around me. Despair weighted the air, pushing me 
down with more pressure than before. 

One vampire in the opposing force did not seem to 
belong to either party; I recognized Irina as she 
hesitated in between the two companies, her 
expression unique among the others. Irina’s horrified 
gaze was locked on Tanya’s position in the front line. 
Edward snarled, a very low but fervent sound. 



766 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alistair was right,” he murmured to Carlisle. 

I watched Carlisle glance at Edward questioningly. 

“Alistair was right?” Tanya whispered. 

“They — Caius and Aro — come to destroy and acquire,” 
Edward breathed almost silently back; only our side 
could hear. “They have many layers of strategy 
already in place. If Irina’s accusation had somehow 
proven to be false, they were committed to find 
another reason to take offense. But they can see 
Renesmee now, so they are perfectly sanguine about 
their course. We could still attempt to defend against 
their other contrived charges, but first they have to 
stop, to hear the truth about Renesmee.” Then, even 
lower. “Which they have no intention of doing.” 

Jacob gave a strange little huff. 

And then, unexpectedly, two seconds later, the 
procession did halt. The low music of perfectly 
synchronized movements turned to silence. The 
flawless discipline remained unbroken; the Volturi 
froze into absolute stillness as one. They stood about 
a hundred yards away from us. 

Behind me, to the sides, I heard the beating of large 
hearts, closer than before. I risked glances to the left 
and the right from the corners of my eyes to see what 
had stopped the Volturi advance. 

The wolves had joined us. 

On either side of our uneven line, the wolves 
branched out in long, bordering arms. I only spared a 
fraction of a second to note that there were more than 



767 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




ten wolves, to recognize the wolves I knew and the 
ones I’d never seen before. There were sixteen of them 
spaced evenly around us — seventeen total, counting 
Jacob. It was clear from their heights and oversized 
paws that the newcomers all were very, very young. I 
supposed I should have foreseen this. With so many 
vampires encamped in the neighborhood, a werewolf 
population explosion was inevitable. 

More children dying. I wondered why Sam had 
allowed this, and then I realized he had no other 
choice. If any of the wolves stood with us, the Volturi 
would be sure to search out the rest. They had 
gambled their entire species on this stand. And we 
were going to lose. 

Abruptly, I was furious. Beyond furious, I was 
murderously enraged. My hopeless despair vanished 
entirely. A faint reddish glow highlighted the dark 
figures in front of me, and all I wanted in that 
moment was the chance to sink my teeth into them, 
to rip their limbs from their bodies and pile them for 
burning. I was so maddened I could have danced 
around the pyre where they roasted alive; I would 
have laughed while their ashes smoldered. My lips 
curved back automatically, and a low, fierce snarl 
tore up my throat from the pit of my stomach. I 
realized the corners of my mouth were turned up in a 
smile. 

Beside me, Zafrina and Senna echoed my hushed 
growl. Edward squeezed the hand he still held, 
cautioning me. 



768 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




The shadowed Volturi faces were still expressionless 
for the most part. Only two sets of eyes betrayed any 
emotion at all. In the very center, touching hands, Aro 
and Caius had paused to evaluate, and the entire 
guard had paused with them, waiting for the order to 
kill. The two did not look at each other, but it was 
obvious that they were communicating. Marcus, 
though touching Aro’s other hand, did not seem part 
of the conversation. His expression was not as 
mindless as the guards’, but it was nearly as blank. 
Like the one other time I’d seen him, he appeared to 
be utterly bored. The bodies of the Volturi’s witnesses 
leaned toward us, their eyes fixed furiously on 
Renesmee and me, but they stayed near the fringe of 
the forest, leaving a wide berth between themselves 
and the Volturi soldiers. Only Irina hovered close 
behind the Volturi, just a few paces away from the 
ancient females — both fair-haired with powdery skin 
and filmed eyes — and their two massive bodyguards. 

There was a woman in one of the darker gray cloaks 
just behind Aro. I couldn’t be sure, but it looked like 
she might actually be touching his back. Was this the 
other shield, Renata? I wondered, as Eleazar had, if 
she would be able to repel me. But I would not waste 
my life trying to get to Caius or Aro. I had more vital 
targets. I searched the line for them now and had no 
difficulty picking out the two petite, deep gray cloaks 
near the heart of the arrangement. Alec and Jane, 
easily the smallest members of the guard, stood just 
to Marcus’s side, flanked by Demetri on the other. 
Their lovely faces were smooth, giving nothing away; 
they wore the darkest cloaks beside the pure black of 
the ancients. The witch twins, Vladimir had called 



769 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




them. Their powers were the cornerstone of the 
Volturi offensive. The jewels in Aro’s collection. My 
muscles flexed, and venom welled in my mouth. 

Aro’s and Caius’s clouded red eyes flickered across 
our line. I read disappointment in Aro’s face as his 
gaze roved over our faces again and again, looking for 
one that was missing. Chagrin tightened his lips. 

In that moment, I was nothing but grateful that Alice 
had run. 

As the pause lengthened, I heard Edward’s breath 
speed. 

“Edward?” Carlisle asked, low and anxious. 

“They’re not sure how to proceed. They’re weighing 
options, choosing key targets — 

me, of course, you, Eleazar, Tanya. Marcus is reading 
the strength of our ties to each other, looking for 
weak points. The Romanians’ presence irritates them. 
They’re worried about the faces they don’t recognize — 
Zafrina and Senna in particular — and the wolves, 
naturally. They’ve never been outnumbered before. 
That’s what stopped them.” 

“Outnumbered?” Tanya whispered incredulously. 

“They don’t count their witnesses,” Edward breathed. 
“They are nonentities, meaningless to the guard. Aro 
just enjoys an audience.” 

“Should I speak?” Carlisle asked. 



770 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward hesitated, then nodded. “This is the only 
chance you’ll get.” 

Carlisle squared his shoulders and paced several 
steps ahead of our defensive line. I hated to see him 
alone, unprotected. 

He spread his arms, holding his palms up as if in 
greeting. “Aro, my old friend. It’s been centuries.” 

The white clearing was dead silent for a long moment. 

I could feel the tension rolling off Edward as he 
listened to Aro’s assessment of Carlisle’s words. The 
strain mounted as the seconds ticked by. 

And then Aro stepped forward out of the center of the 
Volturi formation. The shield, Renata, moved with 
him as if the tips of her fingers were sewn to his robe. 
For the first time, the Volturi ranks reacted. A 
muttered grumble rolled through the line, eyebrows 
lowered into scowls, lips curled back from teeth. A few 
of the guard leaned forward into a crouch. 

Aro held one hand up toward them. “Peace.” 

He walked just a few paces more, then cocked his 
head to one side. His milky eyes glinted with 
curiosity. 

“Fair words, Carlisle,” he breathed in his thin, wispy 
voice. “They seem out of place, considering the army 
you’ve assembled to kill me, and to kill my dear ones.” 

Carlisle shook his head and stretched his right hand 
forward as if there were not still almost a hundred 
yards between them. “You have but to touch my hand 
to know that was never my intent.” 

771 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Aro’s shrewd eyes narrowed. “But how can your 
intent possibly matter, dear Carlisle, in the face of 
what you have done?” He frowned, and a shadow of 
sadness crossed his features — whether it was genuine 
or not, I could not tell. 

“I have not committed the crime you are here to 
punish me for.” 

“Then step aside and let us punish those responsible. 
Truly, Carlisle, nothing would please me more than to 
preserve your life today.” 

“No one has broken the law, Aro. Let me explain.” 
Again, Carlisle offered his hand. Before Aro could 
answer, Caius drifted swiftly forward to Aro’s side. 

“So many pointless rules, so many unnecessary laws 
you create for yourself, Carlisle,” 

the white-haired ancient hissed. “How is it possible 
that you defend the breaking of one that truly 
matters?” 

“The law is not broken. If you would listen — ” 

“We see the child, Carlisle,” Caius snarled. “Do not 
treat us as fools.” 

“She is not an immortal. She is not a vampire. I can 
easily prove this with just a few moments — ” 

Caius cut him off. “If she is not one of the forbidden, 
then why have you massed a battalion to protect 
her?” 



772 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Witnesses, Caius, just as you have brought.” Carlisle 
gestured to the angry horde at the edge of the woods; 
some of them growled in response. “Any one of these 
friends can tell you the truth about the child. Or you 
could just look at her, Caius. See the flush of human 
blood in her cheeks.” 

“Artifice!” Caius snapped. “Where is the informer? Let 
her come forward!” He craned his neck around until 
he spotted Irina lingering behind the wives. “You! 
Come!” 

Irina stared at him uncomprehendingly, her face like 
that of someone who has not entirely awakened from 
a hideous nightmare. Impatiently, Caius snapped his 
fingers. One of the wives’ huge bodyguards moved to 
Irina’s side and prodded her roughly in the back. 

Irina blinked twice and then walked slowly toward 
Caius in a daze. She stopped several yards short, her 
eyes still on her sisters. 

Caius closed the distance between them and slapped 
her across the face. It couldn’t have hurt, but there 
was something terribly degrading about the action. It 
was like watching someone kick a dog. Tanya and 
Kate hissed in synchronization. Irina’s body went 
rigid and her eyes finally focused on Caius. He 
pointed one clawed finger at Renesmee, where she 
clung to my back, her fingers still tangled in Jacob’s 
fur. Caius turned entirely red in my furious view. A 
growl rumbled through Jacob’s chest. 

“This is the child you saw?” Caius demanded. “The 
one that was obviously more than human?” 



773 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Irina peered at us, examining Renesmee for the first 
time since entering the clearing. Her head tilted to the 
side, confusion crossed her features. 

“Well?” Caius snarled. 

“I... I’m not sure,” she said, her tone perplexed. 

Caius ’s hand twitched as if he wanted to slap her 
again. “What do you mean?” he said in a steely 
whisper. 

“She’s not the same, but I think it’s the same child. 
What I mean is, she’s changed. This child is bigger 
than the one I saw, but — ” 

Caius ’s furious gasp crackled through his suddenly 
bared teeth, and Irina broke off without finishing. Aro 
flitted to Caius ’s side and put a restraining hand on 
his shoulder. 

“Be composed, brother. We have time to sort this out. 
No need to be hasty.” 

With a sullen expression, Caius turned his back on 
Irina. 

“Now, sweetling,” Aro said in a warm, sugary 
murmur. “Show me what you’re trying to say.” He 
held his hand out to the bewildered vampire. 

Uncertainly, Irina took his hand. He held hers for 
only five seconds. 

“You see, Caius?” he said. “It’s a simple matter to get 
what we need.” 



774 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Caius didn’t answer him. From the corner of his eye, 
Aro glanced once at his audience, his mob, and then 
turned back to Carlisle. 

“And so we have a mystery on our hands, it seems. It 
would appear the child has grown. Yet Irina’s first 
memory was clearly that of an immortal child. 
Curious.” 

“That’s exactly what I’m trying to explain,” Carlisle 
said, and from the change in his voice, I could guess 
at his relief. This was the pause we had pinned all our 
nebulous hopes on. 

I felt no relief. I waited, almost numb with rage, for 
the layers of strategy Edward had promised. 

Carlisle held out his hand again. 

Aro hesitated for a moment. “I would rather have the 
explanation from someone more central to the story, 
my friend. Am I wrong to assume that this breach 
was not of your making?” 

“There was no breach.” 

“Be that as it may, I will have every facet of the truth.” 
Aro’s feathery voice hardened. 

“And the best way to get that is to have the evidence 
directly from your talented son.” 

He inclined his head in Edward’s direction. “As the 
child clings to his newborn mate, I’m assuming 
Edward is involved.” 



775 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Of course he wanted Edward. Once he could see into 
Edward’s mind, he would know all our thoughts. 
Except mine. 

Edward turned to quickly kiss my forehead and 
Renesmee’s, not meeting my eyes. Then he strode 
across the snowy field, clapping Carlisle on the 
shoulder as he passed. I heard a low whimper from 
behind me — Esme’s terror breaking through. 

The red haze I saw around the Volturi army flamed 
brighter than before. I could not bear to watch 
Edward cross the empty white space alone — but I also 
could not endure to have Renesmee one step closer to 
our adversaries. The opposing needs tore at me; I was 
frozen so tightly it felt like my bones might shatter 
from the pressure of it. I saw Jane smile as Edward 
crossed the midpoint in the distance between us, 
when he was closer to them than he was to us. 

That smug little smile did it. My fury peaked, higher 
even than the raging bloodlust I’d felt the moment the 
wolves had committed to this doomed fight. I could 
taste madness on my tongue — I felt it flow through me 
like a tidal wave of pure power. My muscles tightened, 
and I acted automatically. I threw my shield with all 
the force in my mind, flung it across the impossible 
expanse of the field — ten times my best distance — like 
a javelin. My breath rushed out in a huff with the 
exertion. 

The shield blew out from me in a bubble of sheer 
energy, a mushroom cloud of liquid steel. It pulsed 
like a living thing — I could feel it, from the apex to the 
edges. There was no recoil to the elastic fabric now; in 



776 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




that instant of raw force, I saw that the backlash I’d 
felt before was of my own making — I had been 
clinging to that invisible part of me in self-defense, 
subconsciously unwilling to let it go. Now I set it free, 
and my shield exploded a good fifty yards out from me 
effortlessly, taking only a fraction of my 
concentration. I could feel it flex like just another 
muscle, obedient to my will. I pushed it, shaped it to 
a long, pointed oval. Everything underneath the 
flexible iron shield was suddenly a part of me — I could 
feel the life force of everything it covered like points of 
bright heat, dazzling sparks of light surrounding me. I 
thrust the shield forward the length of the clearing, 
and exhaled in relief when I felt Edward’s brilliant 
light within my protection. I held there, contracting 
this new muscle so that it closely surrounded 
Edward, a thin but unbreakable sheet between his 
body and our enemies. Barely a second had passed. 
Edward was still walking to Aro. Everything had 
changed absolutely, but no one had noticed the 
explosion except for me. A startled laugh burst 
through my lips. I felt the others glancing at me and 
saw Jacob’s big black eye roll down to stare at me like 
I’d lost my mind. 

Edward stopped a few steps away from Aro, and I 
realized with some chagrin that though I certainly 
could, I should not prevent this exchange from 
happening. This was the point of all our preparations: 
getting Aro to hear our side of the story. It was almost 
physically painful to do it, but reluctantly I pulled my 
shield back and left Edward exposed again. The 
laughing mood had vanished. I focused totally on 



777 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward, ready to shield him instantly if something 
went wrong. 

Edward’s chin came up arrogantly, and he held his 
hand out to Aro as if he were conferring a great 
honor. Aro seemed only delighted with his attitude, 
but his delight was not universal. Renata fluttered 
nervously in Aro’s shadow. Caius’s scowl was so deep 
it looked like his papery, translucent skin would 
crease permanently. Little Jane showed her teeth, 
and beside her Alec’s eyes narrowed in concentration. 

I guessed that he was ready, like me, to act at a 
second’s notice. 

Aro closed the distance without pause — and really, 
what did he have to fear? The hulking shadows of the 
lighter gray cloaks — the brawny fighters like Felix — 
were but a few yards away. Jane and her burning gift 
could throw Edward on the ground, writhing in 
agony. Alec could blind and deafen him before he 
could take a step in Aro’s direction. No one knew that 
I had the power to stop them, not even Edward. With 
an untroubled smile, Aro took Edward’s hand. His 
eyes snapped shut at once, and then his shoulders 
hunched under the onslaught of information. 

Every secret thought, every strategy, every insight — 
everything Edward had heard in the minds around 
him during the last month — was now Aro’s. And 
further back — every vision of Alice’s, every quiet 
moment with our family, every picture in Renesmee’s 
head, every kiss, every touch between Edward and 
me... All of that was Aro’s now, too. I hissed with 
frustration, and the shield roiled with my irritation, 
shifting its shape and contracting around our side. 

778 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Easy, Bella,” Zafrina whispered to me. 

I clenched my teeth together. 

Aro continued to concentrate on Edward’s memories. 
Edward’s head bowed, too, the muscles in his neck 
locking tight as he read back again everything that 
Aro took from him, and Aro’s response to it all. 

This two-way but unequal conversation continued 
long enough that even the guard grew uneasy. Low 
murmurs ran through the line until Caius barked a 
sharp order for silence. Jane was edging forward like 
she couldn’t help herself, and Renata’s face was rigid 
with distress. For a moment, I examined this powerful 
shield that seemed so panicky and weak; though she 
was useful to Aro, I could tell she was no warrior. It 
was not her job to fight but to protect. There was no 
bloodlust in her. Raw as I was, I knew that if this 
were between her and me, I would obliterate her. 

I refocused as Aro straightened, his eyes flashing 
open, their expression awed and wary. He did not 
release Edward’s hand. 

Edward’s muscles loosened ever so slightly. 

“You see?” Edward asked, his velvet voice calm. 

“Yes, I see, indeed,” Aro agreed, and amazingly, he 
sounded almost amused. “I doubt whether any two 
among gods or mortals have ever seen quite so 
clearly.” 

The disciplined faces of the guard showed the same 
disbelief I felt. 



779 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“You have given me much to ponder, young friend,” 
Aro continued. “Much more than I expected.” Still he 
did not release Edward’s hand, and Edward’s tense 
stance was that of one who listens. 

Edward didn’t answer. 

“May I meet her?” Aro asked — almost pleaded — with 
sudden eager interest. “I never dreamed of the 
existence of such a thing in all my centuries. What an 
addition to our histories!” 

“What is this about, Aro?” Caius snapped before 
Edward could answer. Just the question had me 
pulling Renesmee around into my arms, cradling her 
protectively against my chest. 

“Something you’ve never dreamed of, my practical 
friend. Take a moment to ponder, for the justice we 
intended to deliver no longer applies.” 

Caius hissed in surprise at his words. 

“Peace, brother,” Aro cautioned soothingly. 

This should have been good news — these were the 
words we’d been hoping for, the reprieve we’d never 
really thought possible. Aro had listened to the truth. 
Aro had admitted that the law had not been broken. 

But my eyes were riveted on Edward, and I saw the 
muscles in his back tighten. I replayed in my head 
Aro’s instruction for Caius to ponder, and heard the 
double meaning. 



780 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Will you introduce me to your daughter?” Aro asked 
Edward again. Caius was not the only one who hissed 
at this new revelation. 

Edward nodded reluctantly. And yet, Renesmee had 
won over so many others. Aro always seemed the 
leader of the ancients. If he were on her side, could 
the others act against us? 

Aro still gripped Edward’s hand, and he now 
answered a question that the rest of us had not 
heard. 

“I think a compromise on this one point is certainly 
acceptable, under the circumstance. We will meet in 
the middle.” 

Aro released his hand. Edward turned back toward 
us, and Aro joined him, throwing one arm casually 
over Edward’s shoulder like they were the best of 
friends — all the while maintaining contact with 
Edward’s skin. They began to cross the field back to 
our side. 

The entire guard fell into step behind them. Aro 
raised a hand negligently without looking at them. 

“Hold, my dear ones. Truly, they mean us no harm if 
we are peaceable.” 

The guard reacted to this more openly than before, 
with snarls and hisses of protest, but held their 
position. Renata, clinging closer to Aro than ever, 
whimpered in anxiety. 

“Master,” she whispered. 



781 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t fret, my love,” he responded. “All is well.” 

“Perhaps you should bring a few members of your 
guard with us,” Edward suggested. 

“It will make them more comfortable.” 

Aro nodded as if this was a wise observation he 
should have thought of himself. He snapped his 
fingers twice. “Felix, Demetri.” 

The two vampires were at his side instantaneously, 
looking precisely the same as the last time I’d met 
them. Both were tall and dark-haired, Demetri hard 
and lean as the blade of a sword, Felix hulking and 
menacing as an iron-spiked cudgel. The five of them 
stopped in the middle of the snowy field. 

“Bella,” Edward called. “Bring Renesmee... and a few 
friends.” 

I took a deep breath. My body was tight with 
opposition. The idea of taking Renesmee into the 
center of the conflict... But I trusted Edward. He 
would know if Aro was planning any treachery at this 
point. 

Aro had three protectors on his side of the summit, so 
I would bring two with me. It took me only a second 
to decide. 

“Jacob? Emmett?” I asked quietly. Emmett, because 
he would be dying to go. Jacob, because he wouldn’t 
be able to bear being left behind. 

Both nodded. Emmett grinned. 



782 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I crossed the field with them flanking me. I heard 
another rumble from the guard as they saw my 
choices — clearly, they did not trust the werewolf. Aro 
lifted his hand, waving away their protest again. 

“Interesting company you keep,” Demetri murmured 
to Edward. 

Edward didn’t respond, but a low growl slipped 
through Jacob’s teeth. We stopped a few yards from 
Aro. Edward ducked under Aro’s arm and quickly 
joined us, taking my hand. 

For a moment we faced each other in silence. Then 
Felix greeted me in a low aside. 

“Hello again, Bella.” He grinned cockily while still 
tracking Jacob’s every twitch with his peripheral 
vision. 

I smiled wryly at the mountainous vampire. “Hey, 
Felix.” 

Felix chuckled. “You look good. Immortality suits 
you.” 

“Thanks so much.” 

“You’re welcome. It’s too bad . . .” 

He let his comment trail off into silence, but I didn’t 
need Edward’s gift to imagine the end. It’s too bad 
we’re going to kill you in a sec. 

“Yes, too bad, isn’t it?” I murmured. 

Felix winked. 



783 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Aro paid no attention to our exchange. He leaned his 
head to one side, fascinated. “I hear her strange 
heart,” he murmured with an almost musical lilt to 
his words. “I smell her strange scent.” Then his hazy 
eyes shifted to me. “In truth, young Bella, immortality 
does become you most extraordinarily,” he said. “It is 
as if you were designed for this life.” 

I nodded once in acknowledgment of his flattery. 

“You liked my gift?” he asked, eyeing the pendant I 
wore. 

“It’s beautiful, and very, very generous of you. Thank 
you. I probably should have sent a note.” 

Aro laughed delightedly. “It’s just a little something I 
had lying around. I thought it might complement your 
new face, and so it does.” 

I heard a little hiss from the center of the Volturi line. 

I glanced over Aro’s shoulder. Hmm. It seemed Jane 
wasn’t happy about the fact that Aro had given me a 
present. Aro cleared his throat to reclaim my 
attention. “May I greet your daughter, lovely Bella?” 
he asked sweetly. 

This was what we’d hoped for, I reminded myself. 
Fighting the urge to take Renesmee and run for it, I 
walked two slow steps forward. My shield rippled out 
behind me like a cape, protecting the rest of my 
family while Renesmee was left exposed. It felt wrong, 
horrible. 

Aro met us, his face beaming. 



784 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“But she’s exquisite,” he murmured. “So like you and 
Edward.” And then louder, 

“Hello, Renesmee.” 

Renesmee looked at me quickly. I nodded. 

“Hello, Aro,” she answered formally in her high, 
ringing voice. Aro’s eyes were bemused. 

“What is it?” Caius hissed from behind. He seemed 
infuriated by the need to ask. 

“Half mortal, half immortal,” Aro announced to him 
and the rest of the guard without turning his 
enthralled gaze from Renesmee. “Conceived so, and 
carried by this newborn while she was still human.” 

“Impossible,” Caius scoffed. 

“Do you think they’ve fooled me, then, brother?” Aro’s 
expression was greatly amused, but Caius flinched. 
“Is the heartbeat you hear a trickery as well?” 

Caius scowled, looking as chagrined as if Aro’s gentle 
questions had been blows. 

“Calmly and carefully, brother,” Aro cautioned, still 
smiling at Renesmee. “I know well how you love your 
justice, but there is no justice in acting against this 
unique little one for her parentage. And so much to 
learn, so much to learn! I know you don’t have my 
enthusiasm for collecting histories, but be tolerant 
with me, brother, as I add a chapter that stuns me 
with its improbability. We came expecting only justice 
and the sadness of false friends, but look what we 



785 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




have gained instead! A new, bright knowledge of 
ourselves, our possibilities.” 

He held out his hand to Renesmee in invitation. But 
this was not what she wanted. She leaned away from 
me, stretching upward, to touch her fingertips to 
Aro’s face. Aro did not react with shock as almost 
everyone else had reacted to this performance from 
Renesmee; he was as used to the flow of thought and 
memory from other minds as Edward was. 

His smile widened, and he sighed in satisfaction. 
“Brilliant,” he whispered. Renesmee relaxed back into 
my arms, her little face very serious. 

“Please?” she asked him. 

His smile turned gentle. “Of course I have no desire to 
harm your loved ones, precious Renesmee.” 

Aro’s voice was so comforting and affectionate, it took 
me in for a second. And then I heard Edward’s teeth 
grind together and, far behind us, Maggie’s outraged 
hiss at the lie. 

“I wonder,” Aro said thoughtfully, seeming unaware of 
the reaction to his previous words. His eyes moved 
unexpectedly to Jacob, and instead of the disgust the 
other Volturi viewed the giant wolf with, Aro’s eyes 
were filled with a longing that I did not comprehend. 

“It doesn’t work that way,” Edward said, the careful 
neutrality gone from his suddenly harsh tone. 

“Just an errant thought,” Aro said, appraising Jacob 
openly, and then his eyes moved slowly across the 
two lines of werewolves behind us. Whatever 



786 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Renesmee had shown him, it made the wolves 
suddenly interesting to him. 

“They don’t belong to us, Aro. They don’t follow our 
commands that way. They’re here because they want 
to be.” 

Jacob growled menacingly. 

“They seem quite attached to you, though,” Aro said. 
“And your young mate and your... family. Loyal.” His 
voice caressed the word softly. 

“They’re committed to protecting human life, Aro. 

That makes them able to coexist with us, but hardly 
with you. Unless you’re rethinking your lifestyle.” 

Aro laughed merrily. “Just an errant thought,” he 
repeated. “You well know how that is. We none of us 
can entirely control our subconscious desires.” 

Edward grimaced. “I do know how that is. And I also 
know the difference between that kind of thought and 
the kind with a purpose behind it. It could never 
work, Aro.” 

Jacob’s vast head turned in Edward’s direction, and a 
faint whine slipped from between his teeth. 

“He’s intrigued with the idea of... guard dogs,” 

Edward murmured back. There was one second of 
dead silence, and then the sound of the furious snarls 
ripping from the entire pack filled the giant clearing. 

There was a sharp bark of command — from Sam, I 
guessed, though I didn’t turn to look 



787 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




— and the complaint broke off into ominous quiet. 

“I suppose that answers that question,” Aro said, 
laughing again. “This lot has picked its side.” 

Edward hissed and leaned forward. I clutched at his 
arm, wondering what could be in Aro’s thoughts that 
would make him react so violently, while Felix and 
Demetri slipped into crouches in synchronization. Aro 
waved them off again. They all returned to their 
former posture, Edward included. 

“So much to discuss,” Aro said, his tone suddenly 
that of an inundated businessman. 

“So much to decide. If you and your furry protector 
will excuse me, my dear Cullens, I must confer with 
my brothers.” 



788 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




jy 

CONTRIVANCES 

Aro did not rejoin his anxious guard waiting on the 
north side of the clearing; instead, he waved them 
forward. 

Edward started backing up immediately, pulling my 
arm and Emmett’s. We hurried backward, keeping 
our eyes on the advancing threat. Jacob retreated 
slowest, the fur on his shoulders standing straight up 
as he bared his fangs at Aro. Renesmee grabbed the 
end of his tail as we retreated; she held it like a leash, 
forcing him to stay with us. We reached our family at 
the same time that the dark cloaks surrounded Aro 
again. Now there were only fifty yards between them 
and us — a distance any of us could leap in just a 
fraction of a second. 

Caius began arguing with Aro at once. 

“How can you abide this infamy? Why do we stand 
here impotently in the face of such an outrageous 
crime, covered by such a ridiculous deception?” He 
held his arms rigidly at his sides, his hands curled 
into claws. I wondered why he did not just touch Aro 
to share his opinion. Were we seeing a division in 
their ranks already? Could we be that lucky? 

“Because it’s all true,” Aro told him calmly. “Every 
word of it. See how many witnesses stand ready to 
give evidence that they have seen this miraculous 
child grow and mature in just the short time they’ve 
known her. That they have felt the warmth of the 



789 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



blood that pulses in her veins.” Aro’s gesture swept 
from Amun on one side across to Siobhan on the 
other. 

Caius reacted oddly to Aro’s soothing words, starting 
ever so slightly at the mention of witnesses. The anger 
drained from his features, replaced by a cold 
calculation. He glanced at the Volturi witnesses with 
an expression that looked vaguely... nervous. I 
glanced at the angry mob, too, and saw immediately 
that the description no longer applied. The frenzy for 
action had turned to confusion. Whispered 
conversations seethed through the crowd as they 
tried to make sense of what had happened. Caius was 
frowning, deep in thought. His speculative expression 
stoked the flames of my smoldering anger at the same 
time that it worried me. What if the guard acted again 
on some invisible signal, as they had in their march? 
Anxiously, I inspected my shield; it felt just as 
impenetrable as before. I flexed it now into a low, wide 
dome that arced over our company. 

I could feel the sharp plumes of light where my family 
and friends stood — each one an individual flavor that 
I thought I would be able to recognize with practice. I 
already knew Edward’s — his was the very brightest of 
them all. The extra empty space around the shining 
spots bothered me; there was no physical barrier to 
the shield, and if any of the talented Volturi got under 
it, it would protect no one but me. I felt my forehead 
crease as I pulled the elastic armor very carefully 
closer. Carlisle was the farthest forward; I sucked the 
shield back inch by inch, trying to wrap it as exactly 
to his body as I could. 



790 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




My shield seemed to want to cooperate. It hugged his 
shape; when Carlisle shifted to the side to stand 
nearer to Tanya, the elastic stretched with him, 
drawn to his spark. Fascinated, I tugged in more 
threads of the fabric, pulling it around each 
glimmering shape that was a friend or ally. The shield 
clung to them willingly, moving as they moved. 

Only a second had passed; Caius was still 
deliberating. 

“The werewolves,” he murmured at last. 

With sudden panic, I realized that most of the 
werewolves were unprotected. I was about to reach 
out to them when I realize that, strangely, I could still 
feel their sparks. Curious, I drew the shield tighter in, 
until Amun and Kebi — the farthest edge of our 
group — were outside with the wolves. Once they were 
on the other side, their lights vanished. They no 
longer existed to that new sense. But the wolves were 
still bright flames — or rather, half of them were. 
Hmm... I edged outward again, and as soon as Sam 
was under cover, all the wolves were brilliant sparks 
again. Their minds must have been more 
interconnected than I’d imagined. If the Alpha was 
inside my shield, the rest of their minds were every 
bit as protected as his. 

“Ah, brother...,” Aro answered Caius’s statement with 
a pained look. 

“Will you defend that alliance, too, Aro?” Caius 
demanded. “The Children of the Moon have been our 
bitter enemies from the dawn of time. We have 
hunted them to near extinction in Europe and Asia. 

791 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Yet Carlisle encourages a familiar relationship with 
this enormous infestation — no doubt in an attempt to 
overthrow us. The better to protect his warped 
lifestyle.” 

Edward cleared his throat loudly and Caius glared at 
him. Aro placed one thin, delicate hand over his own 
face as if he was embarrassed for the other ancient. 

“Caius, it’s the middle of the day,” Edward pointed 
out. He gestured to Jacob. “These are not Children of 
the Moon, clearly. They bear no relation to your 
enemies on the other side of the world.” 

“You breed mutants here,” Caius spit back at him. 

Edward’s jaw clenched and unclenched, then he 
answered evenly, “They aren’t even werewolves. Aro 
can tell you all about it if you don’t believe me.” 

Not werewolves? I shot a mystified look at Jacob. He 
lifted his huge shoulders and let them drop — a shrug. 
He didn’t know what Edward was talking about, 
either. 

“Dear Caius, I would have warned you not to press 
this point if you had told me your thoughts,” Aro 
murmured. “Though the creatures think of 
themselves as werewolves, they are not. The more 
accurate name for them would be shape-shifters. The 
choice of a wolf form was purely chance. It could have 
been a bear or a hawk or a panther when the first 
change was made. These creatures truly have nothing 
to do with the Children of the Moon. They have 
merely inherited this skill from their fathers. It’s 



792 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




genetic — they do not continue their species by 
infecting others the way true werewolves do.” 

Caius glared at Aro with irritation and something 
more — an accusation of betrayal, maybe. 

“They know our secret,” he said flatly. 

Edward looked about to answer this accusation, but 
Aro spoke faster. “They are creatures of our 
supernatural world, brother. Perhaps even more 
dependent upon secrecy than we are; they can hardly 
expose us. Carefully, Caius. Specious allegations get 
us nowhere.” 

Caius took a deep breath and nodded. They 
exchanged a long, significant glance. I thought I 
understood the instruction behind Aro’s careful 
wording. False charges weren’t helping convince the 
watching witnesses on either side; Aro was cautioning 
Caius to move on to the next strategy. I wondered if 
the reason behind the apparent strain between the 
two ancients — Caius ’s unwillingness to share his 
thoughts with a touch — was that Caius didn’t care 
about the show as much as Aro did. If the coming 
slaughter was so much more essential to Caius than 
an untarnished reputation. 

“I want to talk to the informant,” Caius announced 
abruptly, and turned his glare on Irina. 

Irina wasn’t paying attention to Caius and Aro’s 
conversation; her face was twisted in agony, her eyes 
locked on her sisters, lined up to die. It was clear on 
her face that she knew now her accusation had been 
totally false. 

793 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Irina,” Caius barked, unhappy to have to address 
her. 

She looked up, startled and instantly afraid. 

Caius snapped his fingers. 

Hesitantly, she moved from the fringes of the Volturi 
formation to stand in front of Caius again. 

“So you appear to have been quite mistaken in your 
allegations,” Caius began. Tanya and Kate leaned 
forward anxiously. 

“I’m sorry,” Irina whispered. “I should have made sure 
of what I was seeing. But I had no idea. ...” She 
gestured helplessly in our direction. 

“Dear Caius, could you expect her to have guessed in 
an instant something so strange and impossible?” Aro 
asked. “Any of us would have made the same 
assumption.” 

Caius flicked his fingers at Aro to silence him. 

“We all know you made a mistake,” he said brusquely. 
“I meant to speak of your motivations.” 

Irina waited nervously for him to continue, and then 
repeated, “My motivations?” 

“Yes, for coming to spy on them in the first place.” 
Irina flinched at the word spy. 

“You were unhappy with the Cullens, were you not?” 

She turned her miserable eyes to Carlisle’s face. “I 
was,” she admitted. 

794 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Because... ?” Caius prompted. 

“Because the werewolves killed my friend,” she 
whispered. “And the Cullens wouldn’t stand aside to 
let me avenge him.” 

“The shape-shifters,” Aro corrected quietly. 

“So the Cullens sided with the shape-shifters against 
our own kind — against the friend of a friend, even,” 
Caius summarized. 

I heard Edward make a disgusted sound under his 
breath. Caius was ticking down his list, looking for an 
accusation that would stick. 

Irina’s shoulders stiffened. “That’s how I saw it.” 

Caius waited again and then prompted, “If you’d like 
to make a formal complaint against the shape- 
shifters — and the Cullens for supporting their 
actions — now would be the time.” He smiled a tiny 
cruel smile, waiting for Irina to give him his next 
excuse. Maybe Caius didn’t understand real 
families — relationships based on love rather than just 
the love of power. Maybe he overestimated the 
potency of vengeance. Irina’s jaw jerked up, her 
shoulders squared. 

“No, I have no complaint against the wolves, or the 
Cullens. You came here today to destroy an immortal 
child. No immortal child exists. This was my mistake, 
and I take full responsibility for it. But the Cullens 
are innocent, and you have no reason to still be here. 
I’m so sorry,” she said to us, and then she turned her 
face toward the Volturi witnesses. “There was no 



795 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




crime. There’s no valid reason for you to continue 
here.” 

Caius raised his hand as she spoke, and in it was a 
strange metal object, carved and ornate. 

This was a signal. The response was so fast that we 
all stared in stunned disbelief while it happened. 
Before there was time to react, it was over. 

Three of the Volturi soldiers leaped forward, and Irina 
was completely obscured by their gray cloaks. In the 
same instant, a horrible metallic screeching ripped 
through the clearing. Caius slithered into the center 
of the gray melee, and the shocking squealing sound 
exploded into a startling upward shower of sparks 
and tongues of flame. The soldiers leaped back from 
the sudden inferno, immediately retaking their places 
in the guard’s perfectly straight line. 

Caius stood alone beside the blazing remains of Irina, 
the metal object in his hand still throwing a thick jet 
of flame into the pyre. 

With a small clicking sound, the fire shooting from 
Caius ’s hand disappeared. A gasp rippled through the 
mass of witnesses behind the Volturi. 

We were too aghast to make any noise at all. It was 
one thing to know that death was coming with fierce, 
unstoppable speed; it was another thing to watch it 
happen. Caius smiled coldly. “Now she has taken full 
responsibility for her actions.” 

His eyes flashed to our front line, touching swiftly on 
Tanya’s and Kate’s frozen forms. In that second I 



796 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




understood that Caius had never underestimated the 
ties of a true family. This was the ploy. He had not 
wanted Irina’s complaint; he had wanted her 
defiance. His excuse to destroy her, to ignite the 
violence that filled the air like a thick, combustible 
mist. He had thrown a match. 

The strained peace of this summit already teetered 
more precariously than an elephant on a tightrope. 
Once the fight began, there would be no way to stop 
it. It would only escalate until one side was entirely 
extinct. Our side. Caius knew this. So did Edward. 

“Stop them!” Edward cried out, jumping to grab 
Tanya’s arm as she lurched forward toward the 
smiling Caius with a maddened cry of pure rage. She 
couldn’t shake Edward off before Carlisle had his 
arms locked around her waist. 

“It’s too late to help her,” he reasoned urgently as she 
struggled. “Don’t give him what he wants!” 

Kate was harder to contain. Shrieking wordlessly like 
Tanya, she broke into the first stride of the attack 
that would end with everyone’s death. Rosalie was 
closest to her, but before Rose could clinch her in a 
headlock, Kate shocked her so violently that Rose 
crumpled to the ground. Emmett caught Kate’s arm 
and threw her down, then staggered back, his knees 
giving out. Kate rolled to her feet, and it looked like no 
one could stop her. 

Garrett flung himself at her, knocking her to the 
ground again. He bound his arms around hers, 
locking his hands around his own wrists. I saw his 



797 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




body spasm as she shocked him. His eyes rolled back 
in his head, but his hold did not break. 

“Zafrina,” Edward shouted. 

Kate’s eyes went blank and her screams turned to 
moans. Tanya stopped struggling. 

“Give me my sight back,” Tanya hissed. 

Desperately, but with all the delicacy I could manage, 

I pulled my shield even tighter against the sparks of 
my friends, peeling it back carefully from Kate while 
trying to keep it around Garrett, making it a thin skin 
between them. 

And then Garrett was in command of himself again, 
holding Kate to the snow. 

“If I let you up, will you knock me down again, Katie?” 
he whispered. She snarled in response, still thrashing 
blindly. 

“Listen to me, Tanya, Kate,” Carlisle said in a low but 
intense whisper. “Vengeance doesn’t help her now. 
Irina wouldn’t want you to waste your lives this way. 
Think about what you’re doing. If you attack them, we 
all die.” 

Tanya’s shoulders hunched with grief, and she leaned 
into Carlisle for support. Kate was finally still. Carlisle 
and Garrett continued to console the sisters with 
words too urgent to sound like comfort. 

And my attention returned to the weight of the stares 
that pressed down on our moment of chaos. From the 
corners of my eyes, I could see that Edward and 



798 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




everyone else besides Carlisle and Garrett were on 
their guard again as well. The heaviest glare came 
from Caius, staring with enraged disbelief at Kate and 
Garrett in the snow. Aro was watching the same two, 
incredulity the strongest emotion on his face. He 
knew what Kate could do. He had felt her potency 
through Edward’s memories. 

Did he understand what was happening now — did he 
see that my shield had grown in strength and subtlety 
far beyond what Edward knew me to be capable of? 

Or did he think Garrett had learned his own form of 
immunity? 

The Volturi guard no longer stood at disciplined 
attention — they were crouched forward, waiting to 
spring the counterstrike the moment we attacked. 

Behind them, forty-three witnesses watched with very 
different expressions than the ones they’d worn 
entering the clearing. Confusion had turned to 
suspicion. The lightning-fast destruction of Irina had 
shaken them all. What had been her crime? 

Without the immediate attack that Caius had counted 
on to distract from his rash act, the Volturi witnesses 
were left questioning exactly what was going on here. 
Aro glanced back swiftly while I watched, his face 
betraying him with one flash of vexation. His need for 
an audience had backfired badly. 

I heard Stefan and Vladimir murmur to each other in 
quiet glee at Aro’s discomfort. Aro was obviously 
concerned with keeping his white hat, as the 
Romanians had put it. But I didn’t believe that the 
Volturi would leave us in peace just to save their 
799 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




reputation. After they finished with us, surely they 
would slaughter their witnesses for that purpose. I 
felt a strange, sudden pity for the mass of the 
strangers the Volturi had brought to watch us die. 
Demetri would hunt them until they were extinct, too. 
For Jacob and Renesmee, for Alice and Jasper, for 
Alistair, and for these strangers who had not known 
what today would cost them, Demetri had to die. 

Aro touched Caius’s shoulder lightly. “Irina has been 
punished for bearing false witness against this child.” 
So that was to be their excuse. He went on. “Perhaps 
we should return to the matter at hand?” 

Caius straightened, and his expression hardened into 
unreadability. He stared forward, seeing nothing. His 
face reminded me, oddly, of a person who’d just 
learned he’d been demoted. 

Aro drifted forward, Renata, Felix, and Demetri 
automatically moving with him. 

“Just to be thorough,” he said, “I’d like to speak with 
a few of your witnesses. Procedure, you know.” He 
waved a hand dismissively. 

Two things happened at once. Caius’s eyes focused on 
Aro, and the tiny cruel smile came back. And Edward 
hissed, his hands balling up in fists so tight it looked 
like the bones in his knuckles would split through his 
diamond-hard skin. I was desperate to ask him what 
was going on, but Aro was close enough to hear even 
the quietest breath. I saw Carlisle glance anxiously at 
Edward’s face, and then his own face hardened. 



800 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




While Caius had blundered through useless 
accusations and injudicious attempts to trigger the 
fight, Aro must have been coming up with a more 
effective strategy. Aro ghosted across the snow to the 
far western end of our line, stopping about ten yards 
from Amun and Kebi. The nearby wolves bristled 
angrily but held their positions. 

“Ah, Amun, my southern neighbor!” Aro said warmly. 
“It has been so long since you’ve visited me.” 

Amun was motionless with anxiety, Kebi a statue at 
his side. “Time means little; I never notice its 
passing,” Amun said through unmoving lips. 

“So true,” Aro agreed. “But maybe you had another 
reason to stay away?” 

Amun said nothing. 

“It can be terribly time-consuming to organize 
newcomers into a coven. I know that well! I’m grateful 
I have others to deal with the tedium. I’m glad your 
new additions have fit in so well. I would have loved 
to have been introduced. I’m sure you were meaning 
to come to see me soon.” 

“Of course,” Amun said, his tone so emotionless that 
it was impossible to tell if there was any fear or 
sarcasm in his assent. 

“Oh well, we’re all together now! Isn’t it lovely?” 

Amun nodded, his face blank. 



801 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“But the reason for your presence here is not as 
pleasant, unfortunately. Carlisle called on you to 
witness?” 

“Yes.” 

“And what did you witness for him?” 

Amun spoke with the same cold lack of emotion. “I’ve 
observed the child in question. It was evident almost 
immediately that she was not an immortal child — ” 

“Perhaps we should define our terminology,” Aro 
interrupted, “now that there seem to be new 
classifications. By immortal child, you mean of course 
a human child who had been bitten and thus 
transformed into a vampire.” 

“Yes, that’s what I meant.” 

“What else did you observe about the child?” 

“The same things that you surely saw in Edward’s 
mind. That the child is his biologically. That she 
grows. That she learns.” 

“Yes, yes,” Aro said, a hint of impatience in his 
otherwise amiable tone. “But specifically in your few 
weeks here, what did you see?” 

Amun’s brow furrowed. “That she grows... quickly.” 

Aro smiled. “And do you believe that she should be 
allowed to live?” 

A hiss escaped my lips, and I was not alone. Half the 
vampires in our line echoed my protest. The sound 
was a low sizzle of fury hanging in the air. Across the 



802 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




meadow, a few of the Volturi witnesses made the 
same noise. Edward stepped back and wrapped a 
restraining hand around my wrist. 

Aro did not turn to the noise, but Amun glanced 
around uneasily. 

“I did not come to make judgments,” he equivocated. 

Aro laughed lightly. “Just your opinion.” 

Amun’s chin lifted. “I see no danger in the child. She 
learns even more swiftly than she grows.” 

Aro nodded, considering. After a moment, he turned 
away. 

“Aro?” Amun called. 

Aro whirled back. “Yes, friend?” 

“I gave my witness. I have no more business here. My 
mate and I would like to take our leave now.” 

Aro smiled warmly. “Of course. I’m so glad we were 
able to chat for a bit. And I’m sure we’ll see each 
other again soon.” 

Amun’s lips were a tight line as he inclined his head 
once, acknowledging the barely concealed threat. He 
touched Kebi’s arm, and then the two of them ran 
quickly to the southern edge of the meadow and 
disappeared into the trees. I knew they wouldn’t stop 
running for a very long time. 

Aro was gliding back along the length of our line to 
the east, his guards hovering tensely. He stopped 
when he was in front of Siobhan’s massive form. 



803 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hello, dear Siobhan. You are as lovely as ever.” 

Siobhan inclined her head, waiting. 

“And you?” he asked. “Would you answer my 
questions the same way Amun has?” 

“I would,” Siobhan said. “But I would perhaps add a 
little more. Renesmee understands the limitations. 
She’s no danger to humans — she blends in better 
than we do. She poses no threat of exposure.” 

“Can you think of none?” Aro asked soberly. 

Edward growled, a low ripping sound deep in his 
throat. 

Caius’s cloudy crimson eyes brightened. 

Renata reached out protectively toward her master. 

And Garrett freed Kate to take a step forward, 
ignoring Kate’s hand as she tried to caution him this 
time. 

Siobhan answered slowly, “I don’t think I follow you.” 

Aro drifted lightly back, casually, but toward the rest 
of his guard. Renata, Felix, and Demetri were closer 
than his shadow. 

“There is no broken law,” Aro said in a placating 
voice, but every one of us could hear that a 
qualification was coming. I fought back the rage that 
tried to claw its way up my throat and snarl out my 
defiance. I hurled the fury into my shield, thickening 
it, making sure everyone was protected. 



804 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“No broken law,” Aro repeated. “However, does it 
follow then that there is no danger? 

No.” He shook his head gently. “That is a separate 
issue.” 

The only response was the tightening of already 
stretched nerves, and Maggie, at the fringes of our 
band of fighters, shaking her head with slow anger. 
Aro paced thoughtfully, looking as if he floated rather 
than touched the ground with his feet. I noticed every 
pass took him closer to the protection of his guard. 

“She is unique... utterly, impossibly unique. Such a 
waste it would be, to destroy something so lovely. 
Especially when we could learn so much ...” He 
sighed, as if unwilling to go on. “But there is danger, 
danger that cannot simply be ignored.” 

No one answered his assertion. It was dead silent as 
he continued in a monologue that sounded as if he 
spoke it for himself only. 

“How ironic it is that as the humans advance, as their 
faith in science grows and controls their world, the 
more free we are from discovery. Yet, as we become 
ever more uninhibited by their disbelief in the 
supernatural, they become strong enough in their 
technologies that, if they wished, they could actually 
pose a threat to us, even destroy some of us. 

“For thousands and thousands of years, our secrecy 
has been more a matter of convenience, of ease, than 
of actual safety. This last raw, angry century has 
given birth to weapons of such power that they 
endanger even immortals. Now our status as mere 



805 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




myth in truth protects us from these weak creatures 
we hunt. 

“This amazing child” — he lifted his hand palm down 
as if to rest it on Renesmee, though he was forty 
yards from her now, almost within the Volturi 
formation again — “if we could but know her 
potential — know with absolute certainty that she 
could always remain shrouded within the obscurity 
that protects us. But we know nothing of what she 
will become! Her own parents are plagued by fears of 
her future. We cannot know what she will grow to be.” 
He paused, looking first at our witnesses, and then, 
meaningfully, at his own. His voice gave a good 
imitation of sounding torn by his words. Still looking 
at his own witnesses, he spoke again. “Only the 
known is safe. Only the known is tolerable. The 
unknown is... a vulnerability.” 

Caius’s smile widened viciously. 

“You’re reaching, Aro,” Carlisle said in a bleak voice. 

“Peace, friend.” Aro smiled, his face as kind, his voice 
as gentle, as ever. “Let us not be hasty. Let us look at 
this from every side.” 

“May I offer a side to be considered?” Garrett 
petitioned in a level tone, taking another step forward. 

“Nomad,” Aro said, nodding in permission. 

Garrett’s chin lifted. His eyes focused on the huddled 
mass at the end of the meadow, and he spoke directly 
to the Volturi witnesses. 



806 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I came here at Carlisle’s request, as the others, to 
witness,” he said. “That is certainly no longer 
necessary, with regard to the child. We all see what 
she is. 

“I stayed to witness something else. You.” He jabbed 
his finger toward the wary vampires. “Two of you I 
know — Makenna, Charles — and I can see that many 
of you others are also wanderers, roamers like myself. 
Answering to none. Think carefully on what I tell you 
now. 

“These ancient ones did not come here for justice as 
they told you. We suspected as much, and now it has 
been proved. They came, misled, but with a valid 
excuse for their action. Witness now as they seek 
flimsy excuses to continue their true mission. Witness 
them struggle to find a justification for their true 
purpose — to destroy this family here.” 

He gestured toward Carlisle and Tanya. 

“The Volturi come to erase what they perceive as the 
competition. Perhaps, like me, you look at this clan’s 
golden eyes and marvel. They are difficult to 
understand, it’s true. But the ancient ones look and 
see something besides their strange choice. They see 
power. 

“I have witnessed the bonds within this family — I say 
family and not coven. These strange golden-eyed ones 
deny their very natures. But in return have they 
found something worth even more, perhaps, than 
mere gratification of desire? I’ve made a little study of 
them in my time here, and it seems to me that 
intrinsic to this intense family binding — that which 
807 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




makes them possible at all — is the peaceful character 
of this life of sacrifice. There is no aggression here like 
we all saw in the large southern clans that grew and 
diminished so quickly in their wild feuds. There is no 
thought for domination. And Aro knows this better 
than I do.” 

I watched Aro’s face as Garrett’s words condemned 
him, waiting tensely for some response. But Aro’s face 
was only politely amused, as if waiting for a tantrum- 
throwing child to realize that no one was paying 
attention to his histrionics. 

“Carlisle assured us all, when he told us what was 
coming, that he did not call us here to fight. These 
witnesses” — Garrett pointed to Siobhan and Liam — 
“agreed to give evidence, to slow the Volturi advance 
with their presence so that Carlisle would get the 
chance to present his case. 

“But some of us wondered” — his eyes flashed to 
Eleazar’s face — “if Carlisle having truth on his side 
would be enough to stop the so-called justice. Are the 
Volturi here to protect the safety of our secrecy, or to 
protect their own power? Did they come to destroy an 
illegal creation, or a way of life? Could they be 
satisfied when the danger turned out to be no more 
than a misunderstanding? Or would they push the 
issue without the excuse of justice? 

“We have the answer to all these questions. We heard 
it in Aro’s lying words — we have one with a gift of 
knowing such things for certain — and we see it now in 
Caius’s eager smile. Their guard is just a mindless 
weapon, a tool in their masters’ quest for domination. 



808 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“So now there are more questions, questions that you 
must answer. Who rules you, nomads? Do you 
answer to someone’s will besides your own? Are you 
free to choose your path, or will the Volturi decide 
how you will live? 

“I came to witness. I stay to fight. The Volturi care 
nothing for the death of the child. They seek the 
death of our free will.” 

He turned, then, to face the ancients. “So come, I say! 
Let’s hear no more lying rationalizations. Be honest in 
your intents as we will be honest in ours. We will 
defend our freedom. You will or will not attack it. 
Choose now, and let these witnesses see the true 
issue debated here.” 

Once more he looked to the Volturi witnesses, his 
eyes probing each face. The power of his words was 
evident in their expressions. “You might consider 
joining us. If you think the Volturi will let you live to 
tell this tale, you are mistaken. We may all be 
destroyed” — he shrugged — “but then again, maybe 
not. Perhaps we are on more equal footing than they 
know. Perhaps the Volturi have finally met their 
match. I promise you this, though — if we fall, so do 
you.” 

He ended his heated speech by stepping back to 
Kate’s side and then sliding forward in a half-crouch, 
prepared for the onslaught. 

Aro smiled. “A very pretty speech, my revolutionary 
friend.” 



809 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Garrett remained poised for attack. “Revolutionary?” 
he growled. “Who am I revolting against, might I ask? 
Are you my king? Do you wish me to call you master, 
too, like your sycophantic guard?” 

“Peace, Garrett,” Aro said tolerantly. “I meant only to 
refer to your time of birth. Still a patriot, I see.” 

Garrett glared back furiously. 

“Let us ask our witnesses,” Aro suggested. “Let us 
hear their thoughts before we make our decision. Tell 
us, friends” — and he turned his back casually on us, 
moving a few yards toward his mass of nervous 
observers hovering even closer now to the edge of the 
forest — “what do you think of all this? I can assure 
you the child is not what we feared. Do we take the 
risk and let the child live? Do we put our world in 
jeopardy to preserve their family intact? Or does 
earnest Garrett have the right of it? Will you join 
them in a fight against our sudden quest for 
dominion?” 

The witnesses met his gaze with careful faces. One, a 
small black-haired woman, looked briefly at the dark 
blond male at her side. 

“Are those our only choices?” she asked suddenly, 
gaze flashing back to Aro. “Agree with you, or fight 
against you?” 

“Of course not, most charming Makenna,” Aro said, 
appearing horrified that anyone could come to that 
conclusion. “You may go in peace, of course, as Amun 
did, even if you disagree with the council’s decision.” 



810 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Makenna looked at her mate’s face again, and he 
nodded minutely. 

“We did not come here for a fight.” She paused, 
exhaled, then said, “We came here to witness. And 
our witness is that this condemned family is 
innocent. Everything that Garrett claimed is the 
truth.” 

“Ah,” Aro said sadly. “I’m sorry you see us in that 
way. But such is the nature of our work.” 

“It is not what I see, but what I feel,” Makenna’s 
maize-haired mate spoke in a high, nervous voice. He 
glanced at Garrett. “Garrett said they have ways of 
knowing lies. I, too, know when I am hearing the 
truth, and when I am not.” With frightened eyes he 
moved closer to his mate, waiting for Aro’s reaction. 

“Do not fear us, friend Charles. No doubt the patriot 
truly believes what he says,” Aro chuckled lightly, and 
Charles’s eyes narrowed. 

“That is our witness,” Makenna said. “We’re leaving 
now.” 

She and Charles backed away slowly, not turning 
before they were lost from view in the trees. One other 
stranger began to retreat the same way, then three 
more darted after him. 

I evaluated the thirty-seven vampires that stayed. A 
few of them appeared just too confused to make the 
decision. But the majority of them seemed only too 
aware of the direction this confrontation had taken. I 



811 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




guessed that they were giving up a head start in favor 
of knowing exactly who would be chasing after them. 

I was sure Aro saw the same thing I did. He turned 
away, walking back to his guard with a measured 
pace. He stopped in front of them and addressed 
them in a clear voice. 

“We are outnumbered, dearest ones,” he said. “We 
can expect no outside help. Should we leave this 
question undecided to save ourselves?” 

“No, master,” they whispered in unison. 

“Is the protection of our world worth perhaps the loss 
of some of our number?” 

“Yes,” they breathed. “We are not afraid.” 

Aro smiled and turned to his black-clad companions. 

“Brothers,” Aro said somberly, “there is much to 
consider here.” 

“Let us counsel,” Caius said eagerly. 

“Let us counsel,” Marcus repeated in an uninterested 
tone. 

Aro turned his back to us again, facing the other 
ancients. They joined hands to form a black-shrouded 
triangle. 

As soon as Aro’s attention was engaged in the silent 
counsel, two more of their witnesses disappeared 
silently into the forest. I hoped, for their sakes, that 
they were fast. 



812 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




This was it. Carefully, I loosened Renesmee’s arms 
from my neck. 

“You remember what I told you?” 

Tears welled in her eyes, but she nodded. “I love you,” 
she whispered. Edward was watching us now, his 
topaz eyes wide. Jacob stared at us from the corner of 
his big dark eye. 

“I love you, too,” I said, and then I touched her locket. 
“More than my own life.” I kissed her forehead. 

Jacob whined uneasily. 

I stretched up on my toes and whispered into his ear. 
“Wait until they’re totally distracted, then run with 
her. Get as far from this place as you possibly can. 
When you’ve gone as far as you can on foot, she has 
what you need to get you in the air.” 

Edward’s and Jacob’s faces were almost identical 
masks of horror, despite the fact that one of them was 
an animal. 

Renesmee reached for Edward, and he took her in his 
arms. They hugged each other tightly. 

“This is what you kept from me?” he whispered over 
her head. 

“From Aro,” I breathed. 

“Alice?” 

I nodded. 



813 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




His face twisted with understanding and pain. Had 
that been the expression on my face when I’d finally 
put together Alice’s clues? 

Jacob was growling quietly, a low rasp that was as 
even and unbroken as a purr. His hackles were stiff 
and his teeth exposed. 

Edward kissed Renesmee’s forehead and both her 
cheeks, then he lifted her to Jacob’s shoulder. She 
scrambled agilely onto his back, pulling herself into 
place with handfuls of his fur, and fit herself easily 
into the dip between his massive shoulder blades. 
Jacob turned to me, his expressive eyes full of agony, 
the rumbling growl still grating through his chest. 

“You’re the only one we could ever trust her with,” I 
murmured to him. “If you didn’t love her so much, I 
could never bear this. I know you can protect her, 
Jacob.” 

He whined again, and dipped his head to butt it 
against my shoulder. 

“I know,” I whispered. “I love you, too, Jake. You’ll 
always be my best man.” 

A tear the size of a baseball rolled into the russet fur 
beneath his eye. Edward leaned his head against the 
same shoulder where he’d placed Renesmee. 

“Goodbye, Jacob, my brother... my son.” 

The others were not oblivious to the farewell scene. 
Their eyes were locked on the silent black triangle, 
but I could tell they were listening. 



814 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Is there no hope, then?” Carlisle whispered. There 
was no fear in his voice. Just determination and 
acceptance. 

“There is absolutely hope,” I murmured back. It could 
be true, I told myself. “I only know my own fate.” 

Edward took my hand. He knew that he was 
included. When I said my fate, there was no question 
that I meant the two of us. We were just halves of the 
whole. Esme’s breath was ragged behind me. She 
moved past us, touching our faces as she passed, to 
stand beside Carlisle and hold his hand. 

Suddenly, we were surrounded by murmured 
goodbyes and I love you’s. 

“If we live through this,” Garrett whispered to Kate, 
“I’ll follow you anywhere, woman.” 

“Now he tells me,” she muttered. 

Rosalie and Emmett kissed quickly but passionately. 

Tia caressed Benjamin’s face. He smiled back 
cheerfully, catching her hand and holding it against 
his cheek. 

I didn’t see all the expressions of love and pain. I was 
distracted by a sudden fluttering pressure against the 
outside of my shield. I couldn’t tell where it came 
from, but it felt like it was directed at the edges of our 
group, Siobhan and Liam particularly. The pressure 
did no damage, and then it was gone. 



815 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




There was no change in the silent, still forms of the 
counseling ancients. But perhaps there was some 
signal I’d missed. 

“Get ready,” I whispered to the others. “It’s starting.” 



816 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 





“Chelsea is trying to break our bindings,” Edward 
whispered. “But she can’t find them. She can’t feel us 
here. ...” His eyes cut to me. “Are you doing that?” 

I smiled grimly at him. “I am all over this.” 

Edward lurched away from me suddenly, his hand 
reaching out toward Carlisle. At the same time, I felt a 
much sharper jab against the shield where it wrapped 
protectively around Carlisle’s light. It wasn’t painful, 
but it wasn’t pleasant, either. 

“Carlisle? Are you all right?” Edward gasped 
frantically. 

“Yes. Why?” 

“Jane,” Edward answered. 

The moment that he said her name, a dozen pointed 
attacks hit in a second, stabbing all over the elastic 
shield, aimed at twelve different bright spots. I flexed, 
making sure the shield was undamaged. It didn’t 
seem like Jane had been able to pierce it. I glanced 
around quickly; everyone was fine. 

“Incredible,” Edward said. 

“Why aren’t they waiting for the decision?” Tanya 
hissed. 



817 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“Normal procedure,” Edward answered brusquely. 
“They usually incapacitate those on trial so they can’t 
escape.” 

I looked across at Jane, who was staring at our group 
with furious disbelief. I was pretty sure that, besides 
me, she’d never seen anyone remain standing 
through her fiery assault. 

It probably wasn’t very mature. But I figured it would 
take Aro about half a second to guess — if he hadn’t 
already — that my shield was more powerful than 
Edward had known; I already had a big target on my 
forehead and there was really no point in trying to 
keep the extent of what I could do a secret. So I 
grinned a huge, smug smile right at Jane. 

Her eyes narrowed, and I felt another stab of 
pressure, this time directed at me. I pulled my lips 
wider, showing my teeth. 

Jane let out a high-pitched scream of a snarl. 
Everyone jumped, even the disciplined guard. 
Everyone but the ancients, who didn’t so much as 
look up from their conference. Her twin caught her 
arm as she crouched to spring. 

The Romanians started chuckling with dark 
anticipation. 

“I told you this was our time,” Vladimir said to Stefan. 

“Just look at the witch’s face,” Stefan chortled. 

Alec patted his sister’s shoulder soothingly, then 
tucked her under his arm. He turned his face to us, 
perfectly smooth, completely angelic. 

818 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I waited for some pressure, some sign of his attack, 
but I felt nothing. He continued to stare in our 
direction, his pretty face composed. Was he 
attacking? Was he getting through my shield? Was I 
the only one who could still see him? I clutched at 
Edward’s hand. 

“Are you okay?” I choked out. 

“Yes,” he whispered. 

“Is Alec trying?” 

Edward nodded. “His gift is slower than Jane’s. It 
creeps. It will touch us in a few seconds.” 

I saw it then, when I had a clue of what to look for. 

A strange clear haze was oozing across the snow, 
nearly invisible against the white. It reminded me of a 
mirage — a slight warping of the view, a hint of a 
shimmer. I pushed my shield out from Carlisle and 
the rest of the front line, afraid to have the slinking 
mist too close when it hit. What if it stole right 
through my intangible protection? Should we run? 

A low rumbling murmured through the ground under 
our feet, and a gust of wind blew the snow into 
sudden flurries between our position and the 
Volturi’s. Benjamin had seen the creeping threat, too, 
and now he tried to blow the mist away from us. The 
snow made it easy to see where he threw the wind, 
but the mist didn’t react in any way. It was like air 
blowing harmlessly through a shadow; the shadow 
was immune. The triangular formation of the ancients 
finally broke apart when, with a racking groan, a 



819 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




deep, narrow fissure opened in a long zigzag across 
the middle of the clearing. The earth rocked under my 
feet for a moment. The drifts of snow plummeted into 
the hole, but the mist skipped right across it, as 
untouched by gravity as it had been by wind. Aro and 
Caius watched the opening earth with wide eyes. 
Marcus looked in the same direction without emotion. 

They didn’t speak; they waited, too, as the mist 
approached us. The wind shrieked louder but didn’t 
change the course of the mist. Jane was smiling now. 
And then the mist hit a wall. 

I could taste it as soon as it touched my shield — it 
had a dense, sweet, cloying flavor. It made me 
remember dimly the numbness of Novocain on my 
tongue. 

The mist curled upward, seeking a breach, a 
weakness. It found none. The fingers of searching 
haze twisted upward and around, trying to find a way 
in, and in the process illustrating the astonishing size 
of the protective screen. 

There were gasps on both sides of Benjamin’s gorge. 
“Well done, Bella!” Benjamin cheered in a low voice. 
My smile returned. 

I could see Alec’s narrowed eyes, doubt on his face for 
the first time as his mist swirled harmlessly around 
the edges of my shield. 

And then I knew that I could do this. Obviously, I 
would be the number-one priority, the first one to die, 
but as long as I held, we were on more than equal 

820 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




footing with the Volturi. We still had Benjamin and 
Zafrina; they had no supernatural help at all. As long 
as I held. 

“I’m going to have to concentrate,” I whispered to 
Edward. “When it comes to hand to hand, it’s going to 
be harder to keep the shield around the right people.” 

“I’ll keep them off you.” 

“No. You have to get to Demetri. Zafrina will keep 
them away from me.” 

Zafrina nodded solemnly. “No one will touch this 
young one,” she promised Edward. 

“I’d go after Jane and Alec myself, but I can do more 
good here.” 

“Jane’s mine,” Kate hissed. “She needs a taste of her 
own medicine.” 

“And Alec owes me many lives, but I will settle for 
his,” Vladimir growled from the other side. “He’s 
mine.” 

“I just want Caius,” Tanya said evenly. 

The others started divvying up opponents, too, but 
they were quickly interrupted. Aro, staring calmly at 
Alec’s ineffective mist, finally spoke. 

“Before we vote,” he began. 

I shook my head angrily. I was tired of this charade. 
The bloodlust was igniting in me again, and I was 
sorry that I would help the others more by standing 
still. I wanted to fight. 

821 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Let me remind you,” Aro continued, “whatever the 
council’s decision, there need be no violence here.” 

Edward snarled out a dark laugh. 

Aro stared at him sadly. “It will be a regrettable waste 
to our kind to lose any of you. But you especially, 
young Edward, and your newborn mate. The Volturi 
would be glad to welcome many of you into our ranks. 
Bella, Benjamin, Zafrina, Kate. There are many 
choices before you. Consider them.” 

Chelsea’s attempt to sway us fluttered impotently 
against my shield. Aro’s gaze swept across our hard 
eyes, looking for any indication of hesitation. From 
his expression, he found none. 

I knew he was desperate to keep Edward and me, to 
imprison us the way he had hoped to enslave Alice. 
But this fight was too big. He would not win if I lived. 

I was fiercely glad to be so powerful that I left him no 
way not to kill me. 

“Let us vote, then,” he said with apparent reluctance. 

Caius spoke with eager haste. “The child is an 
unknown quantity. There is no reason to allow such a 
risk to exist. It must be destroyed, along with all who 
protect it.” He smiled in expectation. 

I fought back a shriek of defiance to answer his cruel 
smirk. 

Marcus lifted his uncaring eyes, seeming to look 
through us as he voted. 



822 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I see no immediate danger. The child is safe enough 
for now. We can always reevaluate later. Let us leave 
in peace.” His voice was even fainter than his 
brothers’ feathery sighs. None of the guard relaxed 
their ready positions at his disagreeing words. Caius’s 
anticipatory grin did not falter. It was as if Marcus 
hadn’t spoken at all. 

“I must make the deciding vote, it seems,” Aro mused. 

Suddenly, Edward stiffened at my side. “Yes!” he 
hissed. 

I risked a glance at him. His face glowed with an 
expression of triumph that I didn’t understand — it 
was the expression an angel of destruction might 
wear while the world burned. Beautiful and terrifying. 

There was a low reaction from the guard, an uneasy 
murmur. 

“Aro?” Edward called, nearly shouted, undisguised 
victory in his voice. Aro hesitated for a second, 
assessing this new mood warily before he answered. 
“Yes, Edward? You have something further... ?” 

“Perhaps,” Edward said pleasantly, controlling his 
unexplained excitement. “First, if I could clarify one 
point?” 

“Certainly,” Aro said, raising his eyebrows, nothing 
now but polite interest in his tone. My teeth ground 
together; Aro was never more dangerous than when 
he was gracious. 



823 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“The danger you foresee from my daughter — this 
stems entirely from our inability to guess how she will 
develop? That is the crux of the matter?” 

“Yes, friend Edward,” Aro agreed. “If we could but be 
positive... be sure that, as she grows, she will be able 
to stay concealed from the human world — not 
endanger the safety of our obscurity ...” He trailed 
off, shrugging. 

“So, if we could only know for sure,” Edward 
suggested, “exactly what she will become... then there 
would be no need for a council at all?” 

“If there was some way to be absolutely sure,” Aro 
agreed, his feathery voice slightly more shrill. He 
couldn’t see where Edward was leading him. Neither 
could I. “Then, yes, there would be no question to 
debate.” 

“And we would part in peace, good friends once 
again?” Edward asked with a hint of irony. 

Even more shrill. “Of course, my young friend. 

Nothing would please me more.” 

Edward chuckled exultantly. “Then I do have 
something more to offer.” 

Aro’s eyes narrowed. “She is absolutely unique. Her 
future can only be guessed at.” 

“Not absolutely unique,” Edward disagreed. “Rare, 
certainly, but not one of a kind.” 

I fought the shock, the sudden hope springing to life, 
as it threatened to distract me. The sickly-looking 



824 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




mist still swirled around the edges of my shield. And, 
as I struggled to focus, I felt again the sharp, stabbing 
pressure against my protective hold. 

“Aro, would you ask Jane to stop attacking my wife?” 
Edward asked courteously. “We are still discussing 
evidence.” 

Aro raised one hand. “Peace, dear ones. Let us hear 
him out.” 

The pressure disappeared. Jane bared her teeth at 
me; I couldn’t help grinning back at her. 

“Why don’t you join us, Alice?” Edward called loudly. 

“Alice,” Esme whispered in shock. 

Alice! 

Alice, Alice, Alice! 

“Alice!” “Alice!” other voices murmured around me. 
“Alice,” Aro breathed. 

Relief and violent joy surged through me. It took all 
my will to keep the shield where it was. Alec’s mist 
still tested, seeking a weakness — Jane would see if I 
left any holes. And then I heard them running 
through the forest, flying, closing the distance as 
quickly as they could with no slowing effort at silence. 

Both sides were motionless in expectation. The 
Volturi witnesses scowled in fresh confusion. 

Then Alice danced into the clearing from the 
southwest, and I felt like the bliss of seeing her face 



825 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




again might knock me off my feet. Jasper was only 
inches behind her, his sharp eyes fierce. Close after 
them ran three strangers; the first was a tall, 
muscular female with wild dark hair — obviously 
Kachiri. She had the same elongated limbs and 
features as the other Amazons, even more 
pronounced in her case. The next was a small olive- 
toned female vampire with a long braid of black hair 
bobbing against her back. Her deep burgundy eyes 
flitted nervously around the confrontation before her. 

And the last was a young man... not quite as fast nor 
quite as fluid in his run. His skin was an impossible 
rich, dark brown. His wary eyes flashed across the 
gathering, and they were the color of warm teak. His 
hair was black and braided, too, like the woman’s, 
though not as long. He was beautiful. 

As he neared us, a new sound sent shock waves 
through the watching crowd — the sound of another 
heartbeat, accelerated with exertion. 

Alice leaped lightly over the edges of the dissipating 
mist that lapped at my shield and came to a sinuous 
stop at Edward’s side. I reached out to touch her arm, 
and so did Edward, Esme, Carlisle. There wasn’t time 
for any other welcome. Jasper and the others followed 
her through the shield. 

All the guard watched, speculation in their eyes, as 
the latecomers crossed the invisible border without 
difficulty. The brawny ones, Felix and the others like 
him, focused their suddenly hopeful eyes on me. They 
had not been sure of what my shield repelled, but it 
was clear now that it would not stop a physical 



826 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




attack. As soon as Aro gave the order, the blitz would 
ensue, me the only object. I wondered how many 
Zafrina would be able to blind, and how much that 
would slow them. Long enough for Kate and Vladimir 
to take Jane and Alec out of the equation? That was 
all I could ask for. Edward, despite his absorption in 
the coup he was directing, stiffened furiously in 
response to their thoughts. He controlled himself and 
spoke to Aro again. 

“Alice has been searching for her own witnesses these 
last weeks,” he said to the ancient. “And she does not 
come back empty-handed. Alice, why don’t you 
introduce the witnesses you’ve brought?” 

Caius snarled. “The time for witnesses is past! Cast 
your vote, Aro!” 

Aro raised one finger to silence his brother, his eyes 
glued to Alice’s face. Alice stepped forward lightly and 
introduced the strangers. “This is Huilen and her 
nephew, Nahuel.” 

Hearing her voice... it was like she’d never left. 

Caius ’s eyes tightened as Alice named the 
relationship between the newcomers. The Volturi 
witnesses hissed amongst themselves. The vampire 
world was changing, and everyone could feel it. 

“Speak, Huilen,” Aro commanded. “Give us the 
witness you were brought to bear.” 

The slight woman looked to Alice nervously. Alice 
nodded in encouragement, and Kachiri put her long 
hand on the little vampire’s shoulder. 



827 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I am Huilen,” the woman announced in clear but 
strangely accented English. As she continued, it was 
apparent she had prepared herself to tell this story, 
that she had practiced. It flowed like a well-known 
nursery rhyme. “A century and a half ago, I lived with 
my people, the Mapuche. My sister was Pire. Our 
parents named her after the snow on the mountains 
because of her fair skin. And she was very beautiful — 
too beautiful. She came to me one day in secret and 
told me of the angel that found her in the woods, that 
visited her by night. I warned her.” Huilen shook her 
head mournfully. “As if the bruises on her skin were 
not warning enough. I knew it was the Libishomen of 
our legends, but she would not listen. She was 
bewitched. 

“She told me when she was sure her dark angel’s 
child was growing inside her. I didn’t try to discourage 
her from her plan to run away — I knew even our 
father and mother would agree that the child must be 
destroyed, Pire with it. I went with her into the 
deepest parts of the forest. She searched for her 
demon angel but found nothing. I cared for her, 
hunted for her when her strength failed. She ate the 
animals raw, drinking their blood. I needed no more 
confirmation of what she carried in her womb. I 
hoped to save her life before I killed the monster. 

“But she loved the child inside her. She called him 
Nahuel, after the jungle cat, when he grew strong and 
broke her bones — and loved him still. 

“I could not save her. The child ripped his way free of 
her, and she died quickly, begging all the while that I 



828 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




would care for her Nahuel. Her dying wish — and I 
agreed. 

“He bit me, though, when I tried to lift him from her 
body. I crawled away into the jungle to die. I didn’t get 
far — the pain was too much. But he found me; the 
newborn child struggled through the underbrush to 
my side and waited for me. When the pain ended, he 
was curled against my side, sleeping. 

“I cared for him until he was able to hunt for himself. 
We hunted the villages around our forest, staying to 
ourselves. We have never come so far from our home, 
but Nahuel wished to see the child here.” 

Huilen bowed her head when she was finished and 
moved back so she was partially hidden behind 
Kachiri. 

Aro’s lips were pursed. He stared at the dark-skinned 
youth. 

“Nahuel, you are one hundred and fifty years old?” he 
questioned. 

“Give or take a decade,” he answered in a clear, 
beautifully warm voice. His accent was barely 
noticeable. “We don’t keep track.” 

“And you reached maturity at what age?” 

“About seven years after my birth, more or less, I was 
full grown.” 

“You have not changed since then?” 

Nahuel shrugged. “Not that I’ve noticed.” 



829 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt a shudder tremble through Jacob’s body. I didn’t 
want to think about this yet. I would wait till the 
danger was past and I could concentrate. 

“And your diet?” Aro pressed, seeming interested in 
spite of himself. 

“Mostly blood, but some human food, too. I can 
survive on either.” 

“You were able to create an immortal?” As Aro 
gestured to Huilen, his voice was abruptly intense. I 
refocused on my shield; perhaps he was seeking a 
new excuse. 

“Yes, but none of the rest can.” 

A shocked murmur ran through all three groups. 

Aro’s eyebrows shot up. “The rest?” 

“My sisters.” Nahuel shrugged again. 

Aro stared wildly for a moment before composing his 
face. 

“Perhaps you would tell us the rest of your story, for 
there seems to be more.” 

Nahuel frowned. 

“My father came looking for me a few years after my 
mother’s death.” His handsome face distorted slightly. 
“He was pleased to find me.” Nahuel’s tone suggested 
the feeling was not mutual. “He had two daughters, 
but no sons. He expected me to join him, as my 
sisters had. 



830 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“He was surprised I was not alone. My sisters are not 
venomous, but whether that’s due to gender or a 
random chance... who knows? I already had my 
family with Huilen, and I was not interested” — he 
twisted the word — “in making a change. I see him 
from time to time. I have a new sister; she reached 
maturity about ten years back.” 

“Your father’s name?” Caius asked through gritted 
teeth. 

“Joham,” Nahuel answered. “He considers himself a 
scientist. He thinks he’s creating a new super-race.” 
He made no attempt to disguise the disgust in his 
tone. Caius looked at me. “Your daughter, is she 
venomous?” he demanded harshly. 

“No,” I responded. Nahuel’s head snapped up at Aro’s 
question, and his teak eyes turned to bore into my 
face. 

Caius looked to Aro for confirmation, but Aro was 
absorbed in his own thoughts. He pursed his lips and 
stared at Carlisle, and then Edward, and at last his 
eyes rested on me. Caius growled. “We take care of 
the aberration here, and then follow it south,” he 
urged Aro. 

Aro stared into my eyes for a long, tense moment. I 
had no idea what he was searching for, or what he 
found, but after he had measured me for that 
moment, something in his face changed, a faint shift 
in the set of his mouth and eyes, and I knew that Aro 
had made his decision. 



831 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Brother,” he said softly to Caius. “There appears to 
be no danger. This is an unusual development, but I 
see no threat. These half-vampire children are much 
like us, it appears.” 

“Is that your vote?” Caius demanded. 

“It is.” 

Caius scowled. “And this Joham? This immortal so 
fond of experimentation?” 

“Perhaps we should speak with him,” Aro agreed. 

“Stop Joham if you will,” Nahuel said flatly. “But leave 
my sisters be. They are innocent.” 

Aro nodded, his expression solemn. And then he 
turned back to his guard with a warm smile. 

“Dear ones,” he called. “We do not fight today.” 

The guard nodded in unison and straightened out of 
their ready positions. The mist dissipated swiftly, but 
I held my shield in place. Maybe this was another 
trick. I analyzed their expressions as Aro turned back 
to us. His face was as benign as ever, but unlike 
before, I sensed a strange blankness behind the 
fapade. As if his scheming was over. Caius was clearly 
incensed, but his rage was turned inward now; he 
was resigned. Marcus looked... bored; there really was 
no other word for it. The guard was impassive and 
disciplined again; there were no individuals among 
them, just the whole. They were in formation, ready to 
depart. The Volturi witnesses were still wary; one 
after another, they departed, scattering into the 



832 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




woods. As their numbers dwindled, the remaining 
sped up. Soon they were all gone. 

Aro held his hands out to us, almost apologetic. 
Behind him, the larger part of the guard, along with 
Caius, Marcus, and the silent, mysterious wives, were 
already drifting quickly away, their formation precise 
once again. Only the three that seemed to be his 
personal guardians lingered with him. 

“I’m so glad this could be resolved without violence,” 
he said sweetly. “My friend, Carlisle — how pleased I 
am to call you friend again! I hope there are no hard 
feelings. I know you understand the strict burden 
that our duty places on our shoulders.” 

“Leave in peace, Aro,” Carlisle said stiffly. “Please 
remember that we still have our anonymity to protect 
here, and keep your guard from hunting in this 
region.” 

“Of course, Carlisle,” Aro assured him. “I am sorry to 
earn your disapproval, my dear friend. Perhaps, in 
time, you will forgive me.” 

“Perhaps, in time, if you prove a friend to us again.” 

Aro bowed his head, the picture of remorse, and 
drifted backward for a moment before he turned 
around. We watched in silence as the last four Volturi 
disappeared into the trees. 

It was very quiet. I did not drop my shield. 

“Is it really over?” I whispered to Edward. 



833 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




His smile was huge. “Yes. They’ve given up. Like all 
bullies, they’re cowards underneath the swagger.” He 
chuckled. 

Alice laughed with him. “Seriously, people. They’re 
not coming back. Everybody can relax now.” 

There was another beat of silence. 

“Of all the rotten luck,” Stefan muttered. 

And then it hit. 

Cheers erupted. Deafening howls filled the clearing. 
Maggie pounded Siobhan on the back. Rosalie and 
Emmett kissed again — longer and more ardently than 
before. Benjamin and Tia were locked in each other’s 
arms, as were Carmen and Eleazar. Esme held Alice 
and Jasper in a tight embrace. Carlisle was warmly 
thanking the South American newcomers who had 
saved us all. Kachiri stood very close to Zafrina and 
Senna, their fingertips interlocked. Garrett picked 
Kate up off the ground and swung her around in a 
circle. 

Stefan spit on the snow. Vladimir ground his teeth 
together with a sour expression. And I half-climbed 
the giant russet wolf to rip my daughter off his back 
and then crushed her to my chest. Edward’s arms 
were around us in the same second. 

“Nessie, Nessie, Nessie,” I crooned. 

Jacob laughed his big, barky laugh and poked the 
back of my head with his nose. 

“Shut up,” I mumbled. 



834 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“I get to stay with you?” Nessie demanded. 

“Forever,” I promised her. 

We had forever. And Nessie was going to be fine and 
healthy and strong. Like the halfhuman Nahuel, in a 
hundred and fifty years she would still be young. And 
we would all be together. 

Happiness expanded like an explosion inside me — so 
extreme, so violent that I wasn’t sure I’d survive it. 

“Forever,” Edward echoed in my ear. 

I couldn’t speak anymore. I lifted my head and kissed 
him with a passion that might possibly set the forest 
on fire. 

I wouldn’t have noticed. 



835 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




THE HAPPILY EVER AFTER 

“So it was a combination of things there at the end, 
but what it really boiled down to was... Bella,” 

Edward was explaining. Our family and our two 
remaining guests sat in the Cullens’ great room while 
the forest turned black outside the tall windows. 
Vladimir and Stefan had vanished before we’d 
stopped celebrating. They were extremely 
disappointed in the way things had turned out, but 
Edward said that they’d enjoyed the Volturi’s 
cowardice almost enough to make up for their 
frustration. Benjamin and Tia were quick to follow 
after Amun and Kebi, anxious to let them know the 
outcome of the conflict; I was sure we would see them 
again — Benjamin and Tia, at least. None of the 
nomads lingered. Peter and Charlotte had a short 
conversation with Jasper, and then they were gone, 
too. 

The reunited Amazons had been anxious to return 
home as well — they had a difficult time being away 
from their beloved rain forest — though they were more 
reluctant to leave than some of the others. 

“You must bring the child to see me,” Zafrina had 
insisted. “Promise me, young one.” 

Nessie had pressed her hand to my neck, pleading as 
well. 

“Of course, Zafrina,” I’d agreed. 



836 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 



“We shall be great friends, my Nessie,” the wild 
woman had declared before leaving with her sisters. 

The Irish coven continued the exodus. 

“Well done, Siobhan,” Carlisle complimented her as 
they said goodbye. 

“Ah, the power of wishful thinking,” she answered 
sarcastically, rolling her eyes. And then she was 
serious. “Of course, this isn’t over. The Volturi won’t 
forgive what happened here.” 

Edward was the one to answer that. “They’ve been 
seriously shaken; their confidence is shattered. But, 
yes, I’m sure they’ll recover from the blow someday. 
And then ...” His eyes tightened. “I imagine they’ll try 
to pick us off separately.” 

“Alice will warn us when they intend to strike,” 
Siobhan said in a sure voice. “And we’ll gather again. 
Perhaps the time will come when our world is ready to 
be free of the Volturi altogether.” 

“That time may come,” Carlisle replied. “If it does, 
we’ll stand together.” 

“Yes, my friend, we will,” Siobhan agreed. “And how 
can we fail, when I will it otherwise?” She let out a 
great peal of laughter. 

“Exactly,” Carlisle said. He and Siobhan embraced, 
and then he shook Liam’s hand. 

“Try to find Alistair and tell him what happened. I’d 
hate to think of him hiding under a rock for the next 
decade.” 



837 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Siobhan laughed again. Maggie hugged both Nessie 
and me, and then the Irish coven was gone. 



The Denalis were the last to leave, Garrett with 
them — as he would be from now on, I was fairly sure. 
The atmosphere of celebration was too much for 
Tanya and Kate. They needed time to grieve for their 
lost sister. 

Huilen and Nahuel were the ones who stayed, though 
I had expected those last two to go back with the 
Amazons. Carlisle was deep in fascinated 
conversation with Huilen; Nahuel sat close beside 
her, listening while Edward told the rest of us the 
story of the conflict as only he knew it. 

“Alice gave Aro the excuse he needed to get out of the 
fight. If he hadn’t been so terrified of Bella, he 
probably would have gone ahead with their original 
plan.” 

“Terrified?” I said skeptically. “Of me?” 

He smiled at me with a look I didn’t entirely 
recognize — it was tender, but also awed and even 
exasperated. “When will you ever see yourself 
clearly?” he said softly. Then he spoke louder, to the 
others as well as to me. “The Volturi haven’t fought a 
fair fight in about twenty-five hundred years. And 
they’ve never, never fought one where they were at a 
disadvantage. Especially since they gained Jane and 
Alec, they’ve only been involved with unopposed 
slaughterings. 

“You should have seen how we looked to them! 
Usually, Alec cuts off all sense and feeling from their 

838 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




victims while they go through the charade of a 
counsel. That way, no one can run when the verdict is 
given. But there we stood, ready, waiting, 
outnumbering them, with gifts of our own while their 
gifts were rendered useless by Bella. Aro knew that 
with Zafrina on our side, they would be the blind ones 
when the battle commenced. I’m sure our numbers 
would have been pretty severely decimated, but they 
were sure that theirs would be, too. There was even a 
good possibility that they would lose. They’ve never 
dealt with that possibility before. They didn’t deal 
with it well today.” 

“Hard to feel confident when you’re surrounded by 
horse-sized wolves,” Emmett laughed, poking Jacob’s 
arm. 

Jacob flashed a grin at him. 

“It was the wolves that stopped them in the first 
place,” I said. 

“Sure was,” Jacob agreed. 

“Absolutely,” Edward agreed. “That was another sight 
they’ve never seen. The true Children of the Moon 
rarely move in packs, and they are never much in 
control of themselves. Sixteen enormous regimented 
wolves was a surprise they weren’t prepared for. 

Caius is actually terrified of werewolves. He almost 
lost a fight with one a few thousand years ago and 
never got over it.” 

“So there are real werewolves?” I asked. “With the full 
moon and silver bullets and all that?” 



839 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob snorted. “Real. Does that make me imaginary?” 
“You know what I mean.” 

“Full moon, yes,” Edward said. “Silver bullets, no — 
that was just another one of those myths to make 
humans feel like they had a sporting chance. There 
aren’t very many of them left. Caius has had them 
hunted into near extinction.” 

“And you never mentioned this because... ?” 

“It never came up.” 

I rolled my eyes, and Alice laughed, leaning forward — 
she was tucked under Edward’s other arm — to wink 
at me. 

I glared back. 

I loved her insanely, of course. But now that I’d had a 
chance to realize that she was really home, that her 
defection was only a ruse because Edward had to 
believe that she’d abandoned us, I was beginning to 
feel pretty irritated with her. Alice had some 
explaining to do. 

Alice sighed. “Just get it off your chest, Bella.” 

“How could you do that to me, Alice?” 

“It was necessary.” 

“Necessary!” I exploded. “You had me totally 
convinced that we were all going to die! 

I’ve been a wreck for weeks.” 



840 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“It might have gone that way,” she said calmly. “In 
which case you needed to be prepared to save Nessie.” 

Instinctively, I held Nessie — asleep now on my lap — 
tighter in my arms. 

“But you knew there were other ways, too,” I accused. 
“You knew there was hope. Did it ever occur to you 
that you could have told me everything? I know 
Edward had to think we were at a dead end for Aro’s 
sake, but you could have told me.” 

She looked at me speculatively for a moment. “I don’t 
think so,” she said. “You’re just not that good an 
actress.” 

“This was about my acting skills?” 

“Oh, take it down an octave, Bella. Do you have any 
idea how complicated this was to set up? I couldn’t 
even be sure that someone like Nahuel existed — all I 
knew was that I would be looking for something I 
couldn’t see! Try to imagine searching for a blind spot 

— not the easiest thing I’ve ever done. Plus we had to 
send back the key witnesses, like we weren’t in 
enough of a hurry. And then keeping my eyes open all 
the time in case you decided to throw me any more 
instructions. At some point you’re going to have to tell 
me what exactly is in Rio. Before any of that, I had to 
try to see every trick the Volturi might come in with 
and give you what few clues I could so you would be 
ready for their strategy, and I only had just a few 
hours to trace out all the possibilities. Most of all, I 
had to make sure you’d all believe that I was ditching 
out on you, because Aro had to be positive that you 



841 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




had nothing left up your sleeves or he never would 
have committed to an out the way he did. And if you 
think I didn’t feel like a schmuck — ” 

“Okay, okay!” I interrupted. “Sorry! I know it was 
rough for you, too. It’s just that... 

well, I missed you like crazy, Alice. Don’t do that to 
me again.” 

Alice’s trilling laugh rang through the room, and we 
all smiled to hear that music once more. “I missed 
you, too, Bella. So forgive me, and try to be satisfied 
with being the superhero of the day.” 

Everyone else laughed now, and I ducked my face into 
Nessie’s hair, embarrassed. Edward went back to 
analyzing every shift of intention and control that had 
happened in the meadow today, declaring that it was 
my shield that had made the Volturi run away with 
their tails between their legs. The way everyone 
looked at me made me uncomfortable. Even Edward. 

It was like I had grown a hundred feet during the 
course of the morning. I tried to ignore the impressed 
looks, mostly keeping my eyes on Nessie’s sleeping 
face and Jacob’s unchanged expression. I would 
always be just Bella to him, and that was a relief. 

The hardest stare to ignore was also the most 
confusing one. 

It wasn’t like this half-human, half-vampire Nahuel 
was used to thinking of me in a certain way. For all 
he knew, I went around routing attacking vampires 
every day and the scene in the meadow had been 
nothing unusual at all. But the boy never took his 



842 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




eyes off me. Or maybe he was looking at Nessie. That 
made me uncomfortable, too. He couldn’t be oblivious 
to the fact that Nessie was the only female of his kind 
that wasn’t his half-sister. 

I didn’t think this idea had occurred to Jacob yet. I 
kind of hoped it wouldn’t soon. I’d had enough 
fighting to last me for a while. 

Eventually, the others ran out of questions for 
Edward, and the discussion dissolved into a bunch of 
smaller conversations. 

I felt oddly tired. Not sleepy, of course, but just like 
the day had been long enough. I wanted some peace, 
some normality. I wanted Nessie in her own bed; I 
wanted the walls of my own little home around me. 

I looked at Edward and felt for a moment like I could 
read his mind. I could see he felt exactly the same 
way. Ready for some peace. 

“Should we take Nessie . . .” 

“That’s probably a good idea,” he agreed quickly. “I’m 
sure she didn’t sleep soundly last night, what with all 
the snoring.” 

He grinned at Jacob. 

Jacob rolled his eyes and then yawned. “It’s been a 
while since I slept in a bed. I bet my dad would get a 
kick out of having me under his roof again.” 

I touched his cheek. “Thank you, Jacob.” 

“Anytime, Bella. But you already know that.” 



843 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




He got up, stretched, kissed the top of Nessie’s head, 
and then the top of mine. Finally, he punched 
Edward’s shoulder. “See you guys tomorrow. I guess 
things are going to be kind of boring now, aren’t 
they?” 

“I fervently hope so,” Edward said. 

We got up when he was gone; I shifted my weight 
carefully so that Nessie was never jostled. I was 
deeply grateful to see her getting a sound sleep. So 
much weight had been on her tiny shoulders. It was 
time she got to be a child again — protected and 
secure. A few more years of childhood. 

The idea of peace and security reminded me of 
someone who didn’t have those feelings all the time. 

“Oh, Jasper?” I asked as we turned for the door. 

Jasper was sandwiched tight in between Alice and 
Esme, somehow seeming more central to the family 
picture than usual. “Yes, Bella?” 

“I’m curious — why is J. Jenks scared stiff by just the 
sound of your name?” 

Jasper chuckled. “It’s just been my experience that 
some kinds of working relationships are better 
motivated by fear than by monetary gain.” 

I frowned, promising myself that I would take over 
that working relationship from now on and spare J 
the heart attack that was surely on the way. 

We were kissed and hugged and wished a good night 
to our family. The only off note was Nahuel again, 



844 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




who looked intently after us, as if he wished he could 
follow. Once we were across the river, we walked 
barely faster than human speed, in no hurry, holding 
hands. I was sick of being under a deadline, and I 
just wanted to take my time. Edward must have felt 
the same. 

“I have to say, I’m thoroughly impressed with Jacob 
right now,” Edward told me. 

“The wolves make quite an impact, don’t they?” 

“That’s not what I mean. Not once today did he think 
about the fact that, according to Nahuel, Nessie will 
be fully matured in just six and a half years.” 

I considered that for a minute. “He doesn’t see her 
that way. He’s not in a hurry for her to grow up. He 
just wants her to be happy.” 

“I know. Like I said, impressive. It goes against the 
grain to say so, but she could do worse.” 

I frowned. “I’m not going to think about that for 
approximately six and a half more years.” 

Edward laughed and then sighed. “Of course, it looks 
like he’ll have some competition to worry about when 
the time comes.” 

My frown deepened. “I noticed. I’m grateful to Nahuel 
for today, but all the staring was a little weird. I don’t 
care if she is the only half- vampire he’s not related 
to.” 

“Oh, he wasn’t staring at her — he was staring at you.” 



845 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




That’s what it had seemed like... but that didn’t make 
any sense. “Why would he do that?” 

“Because you’re alive,” he said quietly. 

“You lost me.” 

“All his life,” he explained, “ — and he’s fifty years older 
than I am — ” 

“Decrepit,” I interjected. 

He ignored me. “He’s always thought of himself as an 
evil creation, a murderer by nature. His sisters all 
killed their mothers as well, but they thought nothing 
of it. Joham raised them to think of the humans as 
animals, while they were gods. But Nahuel was 
taught by Huilen, and Huilen loved her sister more 
than anyone else. It shaped his whole perspective. 
And, in some ways, he truly hated himself.” 

“That’s so sad,” I murmured. 

“And then he saw the three of us — and realized for the 
first time that just because he is half immortal, it 
doesn’t mean he is inherently evil. He looks at me and 
sees... what his father should have been.” 

“You are fairly ideal in every way,” I agreed. 

He snorted and then was serious again. “He looks at 
you and sees the life his mother should have had.” 

“Poor Nahuel,” I murmured, and then sighed because 
I knew I would never be able to think badly of him 
after this, no matter how uncomfortable his stare 
made me. 



846 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t be sad for him. He’s happy now. Today, he’s 
finally begun to forgive himself.” 

I smiled for Nahuel’s happiness and then thought 
that today belonged to happiness. Though Irina’s 
sacrifice was a dark shadow against the white light, 
keeping the moment from perfection, the joy was 
impossible to deny. The life I’d fought for was safe 
again. My family was reunited. My daughter had a 
beautiful future stretching out endlessly in front of 
her. Tomorrow I would go see my father; he would see 
that the fear in my eyes had been replaced with joy, 
and he would be happy, too. Suddenly, I was sure 
that I wouldn’t find him there alone. I hadn’t been as 
observant as I might have been in the last few weeks, 
but in this moment it was like I’d known all along. 

Sue would be with Charlie — the werewolves’ mom 
with the vampire’s dad — and he wouldn’t be alone 
anymore. I smiled widely at this new insight. 

But most significant in this tidal wave of happiness 
was the surest fact of all: I was with Edward. Forever. 

Not that I’d want to repeat the last several weeks, but 
I had to admit they’d made me appreciate what I had 
more than ever. 

The cottage was a place of perfect peace in the silver- 
blue night. We carried Nessie to her bed and gently 
tucked her in. She smiled as she slept. 

I took Aro’s gift from around my neck and tossed it 
lightly into the corner of her room. She could play 
with it if she wished; she liked sparkly things. Edward 
and I walked slowly to our room, swinging our arms 
between us. 

847 | P a g e Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




“A night for celebrations,” he murmured, and he put 
his hand under my chin to lift my lips to his. 

“Wait,” I hesitated, pulling away. 

He looked at me in confusion. As a general rule, I 
didn’t pull away. Okay, it was more than a general 
rule. This was a first. 

“I want to try something,” I informed him, smiling 
slightly at his bewildered expression. I put my hands 
on both sides of his face and closed my eyes in 
concentration. I hadn’t done very well with this when 
Zafrina had tried to teach me before, but I knew my 
shield better now. I understood the part that fought 
against separation from me, the automatic instinct to 
preserve self above all else. 

It still wasn’t anywhere near as easy as shielding 
other people along with myself. I felt the elastic recoil 
again as my shield fought to protect me. I had to 
strain to push it entirely away from me; it took all of 
my focus. 

“Bella!” Edward whispered in shock. 

I knew it was working then, so I concentrated even 
harder, dredging up the specific memories I’d saved 
for this moment, letting them flood my mind, and 
hopefully his as well. 

Some of the memories were not clear — dim human 
memories, seen through weak eyes and heard 
through weak ears: the first time I’d seen his face... 
the way it felt when he’d held me in the meadow... the 
sound of his voice through the darkness of my 



848 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




faltering consciousness when he’d saved me from 
James... his face as he waited under a canopy of 
flowers to marry me... every precious moment from 
the island... his cold hands touching our baby 
through my skin. . . 

And the sharp memories, perfectly recalled: his face 
when I’d opened my eyes to my new life, to the 
endless dawn of immortality... that first kiss... that 
first night... 

His lips, suddenly fierce against mine, broke my 
concentration. With a gasp, I lost my grip on the 
struggling weight I was holding away from myself. It 
snapped back like stressed elastic, protecting my 
thoughts once again. 

“Oops, lost it!” I sighed. 

“I heard you,” he breathed. “How? How did you do 
that?” 

“Zafrina’s idea. We practiced with it a few times.” 

He was dazed. He blinked twice and shook his head. 

“Now you know,” I said lightly, and shrugged. “No 
one’s ever loved anyone as much as I love you.” 

“You’re almost right.” He smiled, his eyes still a little 
wider than usual. “I know of just one exception.” 

“Liar.” 

He started to kiss me again, but then stopped 
abruptly. 

“Can you do it again?” he wondered. 



849 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




I grimaced. “It’s very difficult.” 

He waited, his expression eager. 

“I can’t keep it up if I’m even the slightest bit 
distracted,” I warned him. 

“I’ll be good,” he promised. 

I pursed my lips, my eyes narrowing. Then I smiled. 

I pressed my hands to his face again, hefted the 
shield right out of my mind, and then started in 
where I’d left off — with the crystal-clear memory of the 
first night of my new life... lingering on the details. 

I laughed breathlessly when his urgent kiss 
interrupted my efforts again. 

“Damn it,” he growled, kissing hungrily down the edge 
of my jaw. 

“We have plenty of time to work on it,” I reminded 
him. 

“Forever and forever and forever,” he murmured. 

“That sounds exactly right to me.” 

And then we continued blissfully into this small but 
perfect piece of our forever. 



850 | P a g e 



Breaking Dawn - Stephanie Meyer 




