ace 



I felt like I was trapped in one of those terrifying 
nightmares, the one where you have to run, run till 
your lungs burst, but you can’t make your body move 
fast enough. My legs seemed to move slower and 
slower as I fought my way through the callous crowd, 
but the hands on the huge clock tower didn’t slow. 
With relentless, uncaring force, they turned 
inexorably toward the end — the end of everything. 

But this was no dream, and, unlike the nightmare, I 
wasn’t running for my life; I was racing to save 
something infinitely more precious. My own life meant 
little to me today. 

Alice had said there was a good chance we would 
both die here. Perhaps the outcome would be different 
if she weren’t trapped by the brilliant sunlight; only I 
was free to run across this bright, crowded square. 

And I couldn’t run fast enough. 

So it didn’t matter to me that we were surrounded by 
our extraordinarily dangerous enemies. As the clock 
began to toll out the hour, vibrating under the soles of 
my sluggish feet, I knew I was too late — and I was 
glad something bloodthirsty waited in the wings. For 
in failing at this, I forfeited any desire to live. 

The clock tolled again, and the sun beat down from 
the exact center point of the sky. 



2 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I was ninety-nine point nine percent sure I was 
dreaming. 

The reasons I was so certain were that, first, I was 
standing in a bright shaft of sunlight — the kind of 
blinding clear sun that never shone on my drizzly new 
hometown in Forks, Washington — and second, I was 
looking at my Grandma Marie. Gran had been dead 
for six years now, so that was solid evidence toward 
the dream theory. 

Gran hadn’t changed much; her face looked just the 
same as I remembered it. The skin was soft and 
withered, bent into a thousand tiny creases that 
clung gently to the bone underneath. Like a dried 
apricot, but with a puff of thick white hair standing 
out in a cloud around it. 

Our mouths — hers a wizened pucker — spread into the 
same surprised half-smile at just the same time. 
Apparently, she hadn’t been expecting to see me, 
either. 

I was about to ask her a question; I had so many — 
What was she doing here in my dream? What had she 
been up to in the past six years? Was Pop okay, and 
had they found each other, wherever they were? — but 
she opened her mouth when I did, so I stopped to let 
her go first. She paused, too, and then we both smiled 
at the little awkwardness. 

“Bella?” 



3 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



It wasn’t Gran who called my name, and we both 
turned to see the addition to our small reunion. I 
didn’t have to look to know who it was; this was a 
voice I would know anywhere — know, and respond to, 
whether I was awake or asleep... or even dead, I’d bet. 
The voice I’d walk through fire for — or, less 
dramatically, slosh every day through the cold and 
endless rain for. 

Edward. 

Even though I was always thrilled to see him — 
conscious or otherwise — and even though I was 
almost positive that I was dreaming, I panicked as 
Edward walked toward us through the glaring 
sunlight. 

I panicked because Gran didn’t know that I was in 
love with a vampire — nobody knew that — so how was I 
supposed to explain the fact that the brilliant 
sunbeams were shattering off his skin into a 
thousand rainbow shards like he was made of crystal 
or diamond? 

Well, Gran, you might have noticed that my boyfriend 
glitters. It’s just something he does in the sun. Don’t 
worry about it.... 

What was he doing? The whole reason he lived in 
Forks, the rainiest place in the world, was so that he 
could be outside in the daytime without exposing his 
family’s secret. Yet here he was, strolling gracefully 
toward me — with the most beautiful smile on his 
angel’s face — as if I were the only one here. 

In that second, I wished that I was not the one 
exception to his mysterious talent; I usually felt 
grateful that I was the only person whose thoughts he 
couldn’t hear just as clearly as if they were spoken 

4 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




aloud. But now I wished he could hear me, too, so 
that he could hear the warning I was screaming in my 
head. 

I shot a panicked glance back at Gran, and saw that 
it was too late. She was just turning to stare back at 
me, her eyes as alarmed as mine. 

Edward — still smiling so beautifully that my heart felt 
like it was going to swell up and burst through my 
chest — put his arm around my shoulder and turned 
to face my grandmother. 

Gran’s expression surprised me. Instead of looking 
horrified, she was staring at me sheepishly, as if 
waiting for a scolding. And she was standing in such 
a strange position — one arm held awkwardly away 
from her body, stretched out and then curled around 
the air. Like she had her arm around someone I 
couldn’t see, someone invisible... 

Only then, as I looked at the bigger picture, did I 
notice the huge gilt frame that enclosed my 
grandmother’s form. Uncomprehending, I raised the 
hand that wasn’t wrapped around Edward’s waist and 
reached out to touch her. She mimicked the 
movement exactly, mirrored it. But where our fingers 
should have met, there was nothing but cold glass... 

With a dizzying jolt, my dream abruptly became a 
nightmare. 

There was no Gran. 

That was me. Me in a mirror. Me — ancient, creased, 
and withered. 

Edward stood beside me, casting no reflection, 
excruciatingly lovely and forever seventeen. 

5 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He pressed his icy, perfect lips against my wasted 
cheek. 

“Happy birthday,” he whispered. 

I woke with a start — my eyelids popping open wide — 
and gasped. Dull gray light, the familiar light of an 
overcast morning, took the place of the blinding sun 
in my dream. 

Just a dream, I told myself. It was only a dream. I 
took a deep breath, and then jumped again when my 
alarm went off. The little calendar in the corner of the 
clock’s display informed me that today was 
September thirteenth. 

Only a dream, but prophetic enough in one way, at 
least. Today was my birthday. I was officially eighteen 
years old. 

I’d been dreading this day for months. 

All through the perfect summer — the happiest 
summer I had ever had, the happiest summer anyone 
anywhere had ever had, and the rainiest summer in 
the history of the Olympic Peninsula — this bleak date 
had lurked in ambush, waiting to spring. 

And now that it had hit, it was even worse than I’d 
feared it would be. I could feel it — I was older. Every 
day I got older, but this was different, worse, 
quantifiable. I was eighteen. 

And Edward never would be. 

When I went to brush my teeth, I was almost 
surprised that the face in the mirror hadn’t changed. I 
stared at myself, looking for some sign of impending 
wrinkles in my ivory skin. The only creases were the 

6 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




ones on my forehead, though, and I knew that if I 
could manage to relax, they would disappear. I 
couldn’t. My eyebrows stayed lodged in a worried line 
over my anxious brown eyes. 

It was just a dream, I reminded myself again. Just a 
dream... but also my worst nightmare. 

I skipped breakfast, in a hurry to get out of the house 
as quickly as possible. I wasn’t entirely able to avoid 
my dad, and so I had to spend a few minutes acting 
cheerful. I honestly tried to be excited about the gifts 
I’d asked him not to get me, but every time I had to 
smile, it felt like I might start crying. 

I struggled to get a grip on myself as I drove to school. 
The vision of Gran — I would not think of it as me — 
was hard to get out of my head. I couldn’t feel 
anything but despair until I pulled into the familiar 
parking lot behind Forks High School and spotted 
Edward leaning motionlessly against his polished 
silver Volvo, like a marble tribute to some forgotten 
pagan god of beauty. The dream had not done him 
justice. And he was waiting there for me, just the 
same as every other day. 

Despair momentarily vanished; wonder took its place. 
Even after half a year with him, I still couldn’t believe 
that I deserved this degree of good fortune. 

His sister Alice was standing by his side, waiting for 
me, too. 

Of course Edward and Alice weren’t really related (in 
Forks the story was that all the Cullen siblings were 
adopted by Dr. Carlisle Cullen and his wife, Esme, 
both plainly too young to have teenage children), but 
their skin was precisely the same pale shade, their 
eyes had the same strange golden tint, with the same 
7 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




deep, bruise-like shadows beneath them. Her face, 
like his, was also startlingly beautiful. To someone in 
the know — someone like me — these similarities 
marked them for what they were. 

The sight of Alice waiting there — her tawny eyes 
brilliant with excitement, and a small silver-wrapped 
square in her hands — made me frown. I’d told Alice I 
didn’t want anything, anything, not gifts or even 
attention, for my birthday. Obviously, my wishes were 
being ignored. 

I slammed the door of my ’53 Chevy truck — a shower 
of rust specks fluttered down to the wet blacktop — 
and walked slowly toward where they waited. Alice 
skipped forward to meet me, her pixie face glowing 
under her spiky black hair. 

“Happy birthday, Bella!” 

“Shh!” I hissed, glancing around the lot to make sure 
no one had heard her. The last thing I wanted was 
some kind of celebration of the black event. 

She ignored me. “Do you want to open your present 
now or later?” she asked eagerly as we made our way 
to where Edward still waited. 

“No presents,” I protested in a mumble. 

She finally seemed to process my mood. “Okay... later, 
then. Did you like the scrapbook your mom sent you? 
And the camera from Charlie?” 

I sighed. Of course she would know what my birthday 
presents were. Edward wasn’t the only member of his 
family with unusual skills. Alice would have “seen” 
what my parents were planning as soon as they’d 
decided that themselves. 

8 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah. They’re great.” 



“I think it’s a nice idea. You’re only a senior once. 
Might as well document the experience.” 

“How many times have you been a senior?” 

“That’s different.” 

We reached Edward then, and he held out his hand 
for mine. I took it eagerly, forgetting, for a moment, 
my glum mood. His skin was, as always, smooth, 
hard, and very cold. He gave my fingers a gentle 
squeeze. I looked into his liquid topaz eyes, and my 
heart gave a not-quite-so-gentle squeeze of its own. 
Hearing the stutter in my heartbeats, he smiled 
again. 

He lifted his free hand and traced one cool fingertip 
around the outside of my lips as he spoke. “So, as 
discussed, I am not allowed to wish you a happy 
birthday, is that correct?” 

“Yes. That is correct.” I could never quite mimic the 
flow of his perfect, formal articulation. It was 
something that could only be picked up in an earlier 
century. 

“Just checking.” He ran his hand through his tousled 
bronze hair. “You might have changed your mind. 
Most people seem to enjoy things like birthdays and 
gifts.” 

Alice laughed, and the sound was all silver, a wind 
chime. “Of course you’ll enjoy it. Everyone is 
supposed to be nice to you today and give you your 
way, Bella. What’s the worst that could happen?” She 
meant it as a rhetorical question. 



9 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Getting older,” I answered anyway, and my voice was 
not as steady as I wanted it to be. 

Beside me, Edward’s smile tightened into a hard line. 

“Eighteen isn’t very old,” Alice said. “Don’t women 
usually wait till they’re twenty-nine to get upset over 
birthdays?” 

“It’s older than Edward,” I mumbled. 

He sighed. 

“Technically,” she said, keeping her tone light. “Just 
by one little year, though.” 

And I supposed... if I could be sure of the future I 
wanted, sure that I would get to spend forever with 
Edward, and Alice and the rest of the Cullens 
(preferably not as a wrinkled little old lady)... then a 
year or two one direction or the other wouldn’t matter 
to me so much. But Edward was dead set against any 
future that changed me. Any future that made me like 
him — that made me immortal, too. 

An impasse, he called it. 

I couldn’t really see Edward’s point, to be honest. 
What was so great about mortality? Being a vampire 
didn’t look like such a terrible thing — not the way the 
Cullens did it, anyway. 

“What time will you be at the house?” Alice continued, 
changing the subject. From her expression, she was 
up to exactly the kind of thing I’d been hoping to 
avoid. 

“I didn’t know I had plans to be there.” 



10 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh, be fair, Bella!” she complained. “You aren’t going 
to min all our fun like that, are you?” 

“I thought my birthday was about what I want.” 

“I’ll get her from Charlie’s right after school,” Edward 
told her, ignoring me altogether. 

“I have to work,” I protested. 

“You don’t, actually,” Alice told me smugly. “I already 
spoke to Mrs. Newton about it. She’s trading your 
shifts. She said to tell you ‘Happy Birthday.’” 

“I — I still can’t come over,” I stammered, scrambling 
for an excuse. “I, well, I haven’t watched Romeo and 
Juliet yet for English.” 

Alice snorted. “You have Romeo and Juliet 
memorized.” 

“But Mr. Berty said we needed to see it performed to 
fully appreciate it — that’s how Shakespeare intended 
it to be presented.” 

Edward rolled his eyes. 

“You’ve already seen the movie,” Alice accused. 

“But not the nineteen-sixties version. Mr. Berty said it 
was the best.” 

Finally, Alice lost the smug smile and glared at me. 
“This can be easy, or this can be hard, Bella, but one 
way or the other — ” 

Edward interrupted her threat. “Relax, Alice. If Bella 
wants to watch a movie, then she can. It’s her 
birthday.” 

11 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“So there,” I added. 



“I’ll bring her over around seven,” he continued. “That 
will give you more time to set up.” 

Alice’s laughter chimed again. “Sounds good. See you 
tonight, Bella! It’ll be fun, you’ll see.” She grinned — 
the wide smile exposed all her perfect, glistening 
teeth — then pecked me on the cheek and danced off 
toward her first class before I could respond. 

“Edward, please — ” I started to beg, but he pressed 
one cool finger to my lips. 

“Let’s discuss it later. We’re going to be late for class.” 

No one bothered to stare at us as we took our usual 
seats in the back of the classroom (we had almost 
every class together now — it was amazing the favors 
Edward could get the female administrators to do for 
him) . Edward and I had been together too long now to 
be an object of gossip anymore. Even Mike Newton 
didn’t bother to give me the glum stare that used to 
make me feel a little guilty. He smiled now instead, 
and I was glad he seemed to have accepted that we 
could only be friends. Mike had changed over the 
summer — his face had lost some of the roundness, 
making his cheekbones more prominent, and he was 
wearing his pale blond hair a new way; instead of 
bristly, it was longer and gelled into a carefully casual 
disarray. It was easy to see where his inspiration 
came from — but Edward’s look wasn’t something that 
could be achieved through imitation. 

As the day progressed, I considered ways to get out of 
whatever was going down at the Cullen house tonight. 
It would be bad enough to have to celebrate when I 
was in the mood to mourn. But, worse than that, this 
was sure to involve attention and gifts. 

12 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Attention is never a good thing, as any other accident- 
prone klutz would agree. No one wants a spotlight 
when they’re likely to fall on their face. 

And I’d very pointedly asked — well, ordered really — 
that no one give me any presents this year. It looked 
like Charlie and Renee weren’t the only ones who had 
decided to overlook that. 

I’d never had much money, and that had never 
bothered me. Renee had raised me on a kindergarten 
teacher’s salary. Charlie wasn’t getting rich at his job, 
either — he was the police chief here in the tiny town 
of Forks. My only personal income came from the 
three days a week I worked at the local sporting goods 
store. In a town this small, I was lucky to have a job. 
Every penny I made went into my microscopic college 
fund. (College was Plan B. I was still hoping for Plan 
A, but Edward was just so stubborn about leaving me 
human....) 

Edward had a lot of money — I didn’t even want to 
think about how much. Money meant next to nothing 
to Edward or the rest of the Cullens. It was just 
something that accumulated when you had unlimited 
time on your hands and a sister who had an uncanny 
ability to predict trends in the stock market. Edward 
didn’t seem to understand why I objected to him 
spending money on me — why it made me 
uncomfortable if he took me to an expensive 
restaurant in Seattle, why he wasn’t allowed to buy 
me a car that could reach speeds over fifty-five miles 
an hour, or why I wouldn’t let him pay my college 
tuition (he was ridiculously enthusiastic about Plan 
B) . Edward thought I was being unnecessarily 
difficult. 

But how could I let him give me things when I had 
nothing to reciprocate with? He, for some 

13 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




unfathomable reason, wanted to be with me. 

Anything he gave me on top of that just threw us 
more out of balance. 

As the day went on, neither Edward nor Alice brought 
my birthday up again, and I began to relax a little. 

We sat at our usual table for lunch. 

A strange kind of truce existed at that table. The three 
of us — Edward, Alice, and I — sat on the extreme 
southern end of the table. Now that the “older” and 
somewhat scarier (in Emmett’s case, certainly) Cullen 
siblings had graduated, Alice and Edward did not 
seem quite so intimidating, and we did not sit here 
alone. My other friends, Mike and Jessica (who were 
in the awkward post-breakup friendship phase), 
Angela and Ben (whose relationship had survived the 
summer), Eric, Conner, Tyler, and Lauren (though 
that last one didn’t really count in the friend category) 
all sat at the same table, on the other side of an 
invisible line. That line dissolved on sunny days when 
Edward and Alice always skipped school, and then 
the conversation would swell out effortlessly to 
include me. 

Edward and Alice didn’t find this minor ostracism odd 
or hurtful the way I would have. They barely noticed 
it. People always felt strangely ill at ease with the 
Cullens, almost afraid for some reason they couldn’t 
explain to themselves. I was a rare exception to that 
rule. Sometimes it bothered Edward how very 
comfortable I was with being close to him. He thought 
he was hazardous to my health — an opinion I rejected 
vehemently whenever he voiced it. 

The afternoon passed quickly. School ended, and 
Edward walked me to my truck as he usually did. But 
this time, he held the passenger door open for me. 

14 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice must have been taking his car home so that he 
could keep me from making a run for it. 



I folded my arms and made no move to get out of the 
rain. “It’s my birthday, don’t I get to drive?” 

“I’m pretending it’s not your birthday, just as you 
wished.” 

“If it’s not my birthday, then I don’t have to go to your 
house tonight ...” 

“All right.” He shut the passenger door and walked 
past me to open the driver’s side. “Happy birthday.” 

“Shh,” I shushed him halfheartedly. I climbed in the 
opened door, wishing he’d taken the other offer. 

Edward played with the radio while I drove, shaking 
his head in disapproval. 

“Your radio has horrible reception.” 

I frowned. I didn’t like it when he picked on my truck. 
The truck was great — it had personality. 

“You want a nice stereo? Drive your own car.” I was 
so nervous about Alice’s plans, on top of my already 
gloomy mood, that the words came out sharper than 
I’d meant them. I was hardly ever bad-tempered with 
Edward, and my tone made him press his lips 
together to keep from smiling. 

When I parked in front of Charlie’s house, he reached 
over to take my face in his hands. He handled me 
very carefully, pressing just the tips of his fingers 
softly against my temples, my cheekbones, my 
jawline. Like I was especially breakable. Which was 
exactly the case — compared with him, at least. 

15 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You should be in a good mood, today of all days,” he 
whispered. His sweet breath fanned across my face. 



“And if I don’t want to be in a good mood?” I asked, 
my breathing uneven. 

His golden eyes smoldered. “Too bad.” 

My head was already spinning by the time he leaned 
closer and pressed his icy lips against mine. As he 
intended, no doubt, I forgot all about my worries, and 
concentrated on remembering how to inhale and 
exhale. 

His mouth lingered on mine, cold and smooth and 
gentle, until I wrapped my arms around his neck and 
threw myself into the kiss with a little too much 
enthusiasm. I could feel his lips curve upward as he 
let go of my face and reached back to unlock my grip 
on him. 

Edward had drawn many careful lines for our 
physical relationship, with the intent being to keep 
me alive. Though I respected the need for maintaining 
a safe distance between my skin and his razor-sharp, 
venom-coated teeth, I tended to forget about trivial 
things like that when he was kissing me. 

“Be good, please,” he breathed against my cheek. He 
pressed his lips gently to mine one more time and 
then pulled away, folding my arms across my 
stomach. 

My pulse was thudding in my ears. I put one hand 
over my heart. It drummed hyperactively under my 
palm. 

“Do you think I’ll ever get better at this?” I wondered, 
mostly to myself. “That my heart might someday stop 

16 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




trying to jump out of my chest whenever you touch 
me?” 

“I really hope not,” he said, a bit smug. 

I rolled my eyes. “Let’s go watch the Capulets and 
Montagues hack each other up, all right?” 

“Your wish, my command.” 

Edward sprawled across the couch while I started the 
movie, fast-forwarding through the opening credits. 
When I perched on the edge of the sofa in front of 
him, he wrapped his arms around my waist and 
pulled me against his chest. It wasn’t exactly as 
comfortable as a sofa cushion would be, what with 
his chest being hard and cold — and perfect — as an ice 
sculpture, but it was definitely preferable. He pulled 
the old afghan off the back of the couch and draped it 
over me so I wouldn’t freeze beside his body. 

“You know, I’ve never had much patience with 
Romeo,” he commented as the movie started. 

“What’s wrong with Romeo?” I asked, a little offended. 
Romeo was one of my favorite fictional characters. 
Until I’d met Edward, I’d sort of had a thing for him. 

“Well, first of all, he’s in love with this Rosaline — don’t 
you think it makes him seem a little fickle? And then, 
a few minutes after their wedding, he kills Juliet’s 
cousin. That’s not very brilliant. Mistake after 
mistake. Could he have destroyed his own happiness 
any more thoroughly?” 

I sighed. “Do you want me to watch this alone?” 



17 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“No, I’ll mostly be watching you, anyway.” His fingers 
traced patterns across the skin of my arm, raising 
goose bumps. “Will you cry?” 

“Probably,” I admitted, “if I’m paying attention.” 

“I won’t distract you then.” But I felt his lips on my 
hair, and it was very distracting. 

The movie eventually captured my interest, thanks in 
large part to Edward whispering Romeo’s lines in my 
ear — his irresistible, velvet voice made the actor’s 
voice sound weak and coarse by comparison. And I 
did cry, to his amusement, when Juliet woke and 
found her new husband dead. 

“I’ll admit, I do sort of envy him here,” Edward said, 
drying the tears with a lock of my hair. 

“She’s very pretty.” 

He made a disgusted sound. “I don’t envy him the 
girl — just the ease of the suicide,” he clarified in a 
teasing tone. “You humans have it so easy! All you 
have to do is throw down one tiny vial of plant 
extracts....” 

“What?” I gasped. 

“It’s something I had to think about once, and I knew 
from Carlisle’s experience that it wouldn’t be simple. 
I’m not even sure how many ways Carlisle tried to kill 
himself in the beginning... after he realized what he’d 
become....” His voice, which had grown serious, 
turned light again. “And he’s clearly still in excellent 
health.” 



18 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I twisted around so that I could read his face. “What 
are you talking about?” I demanded. “What do you 
mean, this something you had to think about once?” 

“Last spring, when you were... nearly killed . . .” He 
paused to take a deep breath, struggling to return to 
his teasing tone. “Of course I was trying to focus on 
finding you alive, but part of my mind was making 
contingency plans. Like I said, it’s not as easy for me 
as it is for a human.” 

For one second, the memory of my last trip to Phoenix 
washed through my head and made me feel dizzy. I 
could see it all so clearly — the blinding sun, the heat 
waves coming off the concrete as I ran with desperate 
haste to find the sadistic vampire who wanted to 
torture me to death. James, waiting in the mirrored 
room with my mother as his hostage — or so I’d 
thought. I hadn’t known it was all a ruse. Just as 
James hadn’t known that Edward was racing to save 
me; Edward made it in time, but it had been a close 
one. Unthinkingly, my fingers traced the crescent- 
shaped scar on my hand that was always just a few 
degrees cooler than the rest of my skin. 

I shook my head — as if I could shake away the bad 
memories — and tried to grasp what Edward meant. 

My stomach plunged uncomfortably. “Contingency 
plans?” I re peated. 

“Well, I wasn’t going to live without you.” He rolled his 
eyes as if that fact were childishly obvious. “But I 
wasn’t sure how to do it — I knew Emmett and Jasper 
would never help... so I was thinking maybe I would 
go to Italy and do something to provoke the Volturi.” 

I didn’t want to believe he was serious, but his golden 
eyes were brooding, focused on something far away in 



19 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the distance as he contemplated ways to end his own 
life. Abruptly, I was furious. 



“What is a Volturi?” I demanded. 

“The Volturi are a family,” he explained, his eyes still 
remote. “A very old, very powerful family of our kind. 
They are the closest thing our world has to a royal 
family, I suppose. Carlisle lived with them briefly in 
his early years, in Italy, before he settled in America — 
do you remember the story?” 

“Of course I remember.” 

I would never forget the first time I’d gone to his 
home, the huge white mansion buried deep in the 
forest beside the river, or the room where Carlisle — 
Edward’s father in so many real ways — kept a wall of 
paintings that illustrated his personal history. The 
most vivid, most wildly colorful canvas there, the 
largest, was from Carlisle’s time in Italy. Of course I 
remembered the calm quartet of men, each with the 
exquisite face of a seraph, painted into the highest 
balcony overlooking the swirling mayhem of color. 
Though the painting was centuries old, Carlisle — the 
blond angel — remained unchanged. And I 
remembered the three others, Carlisle’s early 
acquaintances. Edward had never used the name 
Volturi for the beautiful trio, two black-haired, one 
snow white. He’d called them Aro, Caius, and Marcus, 
nighttime patrons of the arts.... 

“Anyway, you don’t irritate the Volturi,” Edward went 
on, interrupting my reverie. “Not unless you want to 
die — or whatever it is we do.” His voice was so calm, it 
made him sound almost bored by the prospect. 

My anger turned to horror. I took his marble face 
between my hands and held it very tightly. 

20 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You must never, never, never think of anything like 
that again!” I said. “No matter what might ever 
happen to me, you are not allowed to hurt yourself!” 

“I’ll never put you in danger again, so it’s a moot 
point.” 

“Put me in danger! I thought we’d established that all 
the bad luck is my fault?” I was getting angrier. “How 
dare you even think like that?” The idea of Edward 
ceasing to exist, even if I were dead, was impossibly 
painful. 

“What would you do, if the situation were reversed?” 
he asked. 

“That’s not the same thing.” 

He didn’t seem to understand the difference. He 
chuckled. 

“What if something did happen to you?” I blanched at 
the thought. “Would you want me to go off myself?” 

A trace of pain touched his perfect features. 

“I guess I see your point... a little,” he admitted. “But 
what would I do without you?” 

“Whatever you were doing before I came along and 
complicated your existence.” 

He sighed. “You make that sound so easy.” 

“It should be. I’m not really that interesting.” 

He was about to argue, but then he let it go. “Moot 
point,” he reminded me. Abruptly, he pulled himself 



21 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




up into a more formal posture, shifting me to the side 
so that we were no longer touching. 



“Charlie?” I guessed. 

Edward smiled. After a moment, I heard the sound of 
the police cruiser pulling into the driveway. I reached 
out and took his hand firmly. My dad could deal with 
that much. 

Charlie came in with a pizza box in his hands. 

“Hey, kids.” He grinned at me. “I thought you’d like a 
break from cooking and washing dishes for your 
birthday. Hungry?” 

“Sure. Thanks, Dad.” 

Charlie didn’t comment on Edward’s apparent lack of 
appetite. He was used to Edward passing on dinner. 

“Do you mind if I borrow Bella for the evening?” 
Edward asked when Charlie and I were done. 

I looked at Charlie hopefully. Maybe he had some 
concept of birthdays as stay-at-home, family affairs — 
this was my first birthday with him, the first birthday 
since my mom, Renee, had remarried and gone to live 
in Florida, so I didn’t know what he would expect. 

“That’s fine — the Mariners are playing the Sox 
tonight,” Charlie explained, and my hope 
disappeared. “So I won’t be any kind of 
company.... Here.” He scooped up the camera he’d 
gotten me on Renee’s suggestion (because I would 
need pictures to fill up my scrapbook), and threw it to 
me. 



22 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He ought to know better than that — I’d always been 
coordinationally challenged. The camera glanced off 
the tip of my finger, and tumbled toward the floor. 
Edward snagged it before it could crash onto the 
linoleum. 

“Nice save,” Charlie noted. “If they’re doing something 
fun at the Cullens’ tonight, Bella, you should take 
some pictures. You know how your mother gets — 
she’ll be wanting to see the pictures faster than you 
can take them.” 

“Good idea, Charlie,” Edward said, handing me the 
camera. 

I turned the camera on Edward, and snapped the first 
picture. “It works.” 

“That’s good. Hey, say hi to Alice for me. She hasn’t 
been over in a while.” Charlie’s mouth pulled down at 
one corner. 

“It’s been three days, Dad,” I reminded him. Charlie 
was crazy about Alice. He’d become attached last 
spring when she’d helped me through my awkward 
convalescence; Charlie would be forever grateful to 
her for saving him from the horror of an almost-adult 
daughter who needed help showering. “I’ll tell her.” 

“Okay. You kids have fun tonight.” It was clearly a 
dismissal. Charlie was already edging toward the 
living room and the TV. 

Edward smiled, triumphant, and took my hand to 
pull me from the kitchen. 

When we got to the truck, he opened the passenger 
door for me again, and this time I didn’t argue. I still 



23 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




had a hard time finding the obscure turnoff to his 
house in the dark. 

Edward drove north through Forks, visibly chafing at 
the speed limit enforced by my prehistoric Chevy. The 
engine groaned even louder than usual as he pushed 
it over fifty. 

“Take it easy,” I warned him. 

“You know what you would love? A nice little Audi 
coupe. Very quiet, lots of power . . .” 

“There’s nothing wrong with my truck. And speaking 
of expensive nonessentials, if you know what’s good 
for you, you didn’t spend any money on birthday 
presents.” 

“Not a dime,” he said virtuously. 

“Good.” 

“Can you do me a favor?” 

“That depends on what it is.” 

He sighed, his lovely face serious. “Bella, the last real 
birthday any of us had was Emmett in 1935. Cut us a 
little slack, and don’t be too difficult tonight. They’re 
all very excited.” 

It always startled me a little when he brought up 
things like that. “Fine, I’ll behave.” 

“I probably should warn you ...” 

“Please do.” 



24 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“When I say they’re all excited... I do mean all of 
them.” 



“Everyone?” I choked. “I thought Emmett and Rosalie 
were in Africa.” The rest of Forks was under the 
impression that the older Cullens had gone off to 
college this year, to Dartmouth, but I knew better. 

“Emmett wanted to be here.” 

“But... Rosalie?” 

“I know, Bella. Don’t worry, she’ll be on her best 
behavior.” 

I didn’t answer. Like I could just not worry, that easy. 
Unlike Alice, Edward’s other “adopted” sister, the 
golden blond and exquisite Rosalie, didn’t like me 
much. Actually, the feeling was a little bit stronger 
than just dislike. As far as Rosalie was concerned, I 
was an unwelcome intruder into her family’s secret 
life. 

I felt horribly guilty about the present situation, 
guessing that Rosalie and Emmett’s prolonged 
absence was my fault, even as I furtively enjoyed not 
having to see her. Emmett, Edward’s playful bear of a 
brother, I did miss. He was in many ways just like the 
big brother I’d always wanted... only much, much 
more terrifying. 

Edward decided to change the subject. “So, if you 
won’t let me get you the Audi, isn’t there anything 
that you’d like for your birthday?” 

The words came out in a whisper. “You know what I 
want.” 



25 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




A deep frown carved creases into his marble forehead. 
He obviously wished he’d stuck to the subject of 
Rosalie. 

It felt like we’d had this argument a lot today. 

“Not tonight, Bella. Please.” 

“Well, maybe Alice will give me what I want.” 

Edward growled — a deep, menacing sound. “This isn’t 
going to be your last birthday, Bella,” he vowed. 

“That’s not fair!” 

I thought I heard his teeth clench together. 

We were pulling up to the house now. Bright light 
shined from every window on the first two floors. A 
long line of glowing Japanese lanterns hung from the 
porch eaves, reflecting a soft radiance on the huge 
cedars that surrounded the house. Big bowls of 
flowers — pink roses — lined the wide stairs up to the 
front doors. 

I moaned. 

Edward took a few deep breaths to calm himself. 

“This is a party,” he reminded me. “Try to be a good 
sport.” 

“Sure,” I muttered. 

He came around to get my door, and offered me his 
hand. 

“I have a question.” 



He waited warily. 

26 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“If I develop this film,” I said, toying with the camera 
in my hands, “will you show up in the picture?” 

Edward started laughing. He helped me out of the 
car, pulled me up the stairs, and was still laughing as 
he opened the door for me. 

They were all waiting in the huge white living room; 
when I walked through the door, they greeted me with 
a loud chorus of “Happy birthday, Bella!” while I 
blushed and looked down. Alice, I assumed, had 
covered every flat surface with pink candles and 
dozens of crystal bowls filled with hundreds of roses. 
There was a table with a white cloth draped over it 
next to Edward’s grand piano, holding a pink birthday 
cake, more roses, a stack of glass plates, and a small 
pile of silver- wrapped presents. 

It was a hundred times worse than I’d imagined. 

Edward, sensing my distress, wrapped an 
encouraging arm around my waist and kissed the top 
of my head. 

Edward’s parents, Carlisle and Esme — impossibly 
youthful and lovely as ever — were the closest to the 
door. Esme hugged me carefully, her soft, caramel- 
colored hair brushing against my cheek as she kissed 
my forehead, and then Carlisle put his arm around 
my shoulders. 

“Sorry about this, Bella,” he stage-whispered. “We 
couldn’t rein Alice in.” 

Rosalie and Emmett stood behind them. Rosalie 
didn’t smile, but at least she didn’t glare. Emmett’s 
face was stretched into a huge grin. It had been 
months since I’d seen them; I’d forgotten how 



27 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




gloriously beautiful Rosalie was — it almost hurt to 
look at her. And had Emmett always been so... big? 

“You haven’t changed at all,” Emmett said with mock 
disappointment. “I expected a perceptible difference, 
but here you are, red-faced just like always.” 

“Thanks a lot, Emmett,” I said, blushing deeper. 

He laughed, “I have to step out for a second” — he 
paused to wink conspicuously at Alice — “Don’t do 
anything funny while I’m gone.” 

“I’ll try.” 

Alice let go of Jasper’s hand and skipped forward, all 
her teeth sparkling in the bright light. Jasper smiled, 
too, but kept his distance. He leaned, long and blond, 
against the post at the foot of the stairs. During the 
days we’d had to spend cooped up together in 
Phoenix, I’d thought he’d gotten over his aversion to 
me. But he’d gone back to exactly how he’d acted 
before — avoiding me as much as possible — the 
moment he was free from that temporary obligation to 
protect me. I knew it wasn’t personal, just a 
precaution, and I tried not to be overly sensitive about 
it. Jasper had more trouble sticking to the Cullens’ 
diet than the rest of them; the scent of human blood 
was much harder for him to resist than the others — 
he hadn’t been trying as long. 

“Time to open presents,” Alice declared. She put her 
cool hand under my elbow and towed me to the table 
with the cake and the shiny packages. 

I put on my best martyr face. “Alice, I know I told you 
I didn’t want anything — ” 



28 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“But I didn’t listen,” she interrupted, smug. “Open it.” 
She took the camera from my hands and replaced it 
with a big, square silver box. 

The box was so light that it felt empty. The tag on top 
said that it was from Emmett, Rosalie, and Jasper. 
Self-consciously, I tore the paper off and then stared 
at the box it concealed. 

It was something electrical, with lots of numbers in 
the name. I opened the box, hoping for further 
illumination. But the box was empty. 

“Urn... thanks.” 

Rosalie actually cracked a smile. Jasper laughed. “It’s 
a stereo for your truck,” he explained. “Emmett’s 
installing it right now so that you can’t return it.” 

Alice was always one step ahead of me. 

“Thanks, Jasper, Rosalie,” I told them, grinning as I 
remembered Edward’s complaints about my radio this 
afternoon — all a setup, apparently. “Thanks, 

Emmett!” I called more loudly. 

I heard his booming laugh from my truck, and I 
couldn’t help laughing, too. 

“Open mine and Edward’s next,” Alice said, so excited 
her voice was a high-pitched trill. She held a small, 
flat square in her hand. 

I turned to give Edward a basilisk glare. “You 
promised.” 

Before he could answer, Emmett bounded through 
the door. “Just in time!” he crowed. He pushed in 



29 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




behind Jasper, who had also drifted closer than usual 
to get a good look. 

“I didn’t spend a dime,” Edward assured me. He 
brushed a strand of hair from my face, leaving my 
skin tingling from his touch. 

I inhaled deeply and turned to Alice. “Give it to me,” I 
sighed. 

Emmett chuckled with delight. 

I took the little package, rolling my eyes at Edward 
while I stuck my finger under the edge of the paper 
and jerked it under the tape. 

“Shoot,” I muttered when the paper sliced my finger; I 
pulled it out to examine the damage. A single drop of 
blood oozed from the tiny cut. 

It all happened very quickly then. 

“No!” Edward roared. 

He threw himself at me, flinging me back across the 
table. It fell, as I did, scattering the cake and the 
presents, the flowers and the plates. I landed in the 
mess of shattered crystal. 

Jasper slammed into Edward, and the sound was like 
the crash of boulders in a rock slide. 

There was another noise, a grisly snarling that 
seemed to be coming from deep in Jasper’s chest. 
Jasper tried to shove past Edward, snapping his teeth 
just inches from Edward’s face. 

Emmett grabbed Jasper from behind in the next 
second, locking him into his massive steel grip, but 

30 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper struggled on, his wild, empty eyes focused 
only on me. 

Beyond the shock, there was also pain. I’d tumbled 
down to the floor by the piano, with my arms thrown 
out instinctively to catch my fall, into the jagged 
shards of glass. Only now did I feel the searing, 
stinging pain that ran from my wrist to the crease 
inside my elbow. 

Dazed and disoriented, I looked up from the bright 
red blood pulsing out of my arm — into the fevered 
eyes of the six suddenly ravenous vampires. 



31 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





Carlisle was the only one who stayed calm. Centuries 
of experience in the emergency room were evident in 
his quiet, authoritative voice. 

“Emmett, Rose, get Jasper outside.” 

Unsmiling for once, Emmett nodded. “Come on, 
Jasper.” 

Jasper struggled against Emmett’s unbreakable 
grasp, twisting around, reaching toward his brother 
with his bared teeth, his eyes still past reason. 

Edward’s face was whiter than bone as he wheeled to 
crouch over me, taking a clearly defensive position. A 
low warning growl slid from between his clenched 
teeth. I could tell that he wasn’t breathing. 

Rosalie, her divine face strangely smug, stepped in 
front of Jasper — keeping a careful distance from his 
teeth — and helped Emmett wrestle him through the 
glass door that Esme held open, one hand pressed 
over her mouth and nose. 

Esme’s heart-shaped face was ashamed. “I’m so sorry, 
Bella,” she cried as she followed the others into the 
yard. 

“Let me by, Edward,” Carlisle murmured. 

A second passed, and then Edward nodded slowly 
and relaxed his stance. 



32 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



Carlisle knelt beside me, leaning close to examine my 
arm. I could feel the shock frozen on my face, and I 
tried to compose it. 

“Here, Carlisle,” Alice said, handing him a towel. 

He shook his head. “Too much glass in the wound.” 
He reached over and ripped a long, thin scrap from 
the bottom of the white tablecloth. He twisted it 
around my arm above the elbow to form a tourniquet. 
The smell of the blood was making me dizzy. My ears 
rang. 

“Bella,” Carlisle said softly. “Do you want me to drive 
you to the hospital, or would you like me to take care 
of it here?” 

“Here, please,” I whispered. If he took me to the 
hospital, there would be no way to keep this from 
Charlie. 

“I’ll get your bag,” Alice said. 

“Let’s take her to the kitchen table,” Carlisle said to 
Edward. 

Edward lifted me effortlessly, while Carlisle kept the 
pressure steady on my arm. 

“How are you doing, Bella?” Carlisle asked. 

“I’m fine.” My voice was reasonably steady, which 
pleased me. 

Edward’s face was like stone. 

Alice was there. Carlisle’s black bag was already on 
the table, a small but brilliant desk light plugged into 



33 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the wall. Edward sat me gently into a chair, and 
Carlisle pulled up another. He went to work at once. 



Edward stood over me, still protective, still not 
breathing. 

“Just go, Edward,” I sighed. 

“I can handle it,” he insisted. But his jaw was rigid; 
his eyes burned with the intensity of the thirst he 
fought, so much worse for him than it was for the 
others. 

“You don’t need to be a hero,” I said. “Carlisle can fix 
me up without your help. Get some fresh air.” 

I winced as Carlisle did something to my arm that 
stung. 

“I’ll stay,” he said. 

“Why are you so masochistic?” I mumbled. 

Carlisle decided to intercede. “Edward, you may as 
well go find Jasper before he gets too far. I’m sure he’s 
upset with himself, and I doubt he’ll listen to anyone 
but you right now.” 

“Yes,” I eagerly agreed. “Go find Jasper.” 

“You might as well do something useful,” Alice added. 

Edward’s eyes narrowed as we ganged up on him, 
but, finally, he nodded once and sprinted smoothly 
through the kitchen’s back door. I was sure he hadn’t 
taken a breath since I’d sliced my finger. 

A numb, dead feeling was spreading through my arm. 
Though it erased the sting, it reminded me of the 

34 | Page New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




gash, and I watched Carlisle’s face carefully to 
distract me from what his hands were doing. His hair 
gleamed gold in the bright light as he bent over my 
arm. I could feel the faint stirrings of unease in the pit 
of my stomach, but I was determined not to let my 
usual squeamishness get the best of me. There was 
no pain now, just a gentle tugging sensation that I 
tried to ignore. No reason to get sick like a baby. 

If she hadn’t been in my line of sight, I wouldn’t have 
noticed Alice give up and steal out of the room. With a 
tiny, apologetic smile on her lips, she disappeared 
through the kitchen doorway. 

“Well, that’s everyone,” I sighed. “I can clear a room, 
at least.” 

“It’s not your fault,” Carlisle comforted me with a 
chuckle. “It could happen to anyone.” 

“Could,” I repeated. “But it usually just happens to 
me.” 

He laughed again. 

His relaxed calm was only more amazing set in direct 
contrast with everyone else’s reaction. I couldn’t find 
any trace of anxiety in his face. He worked with quick, 
sure movements. The only sound besides our quiet 
breathing was the soft plink, plink as the tiny 
fragments of glass dropped one by one to the table. 

“How can you do this?” I demanded. “Even Alice and 
Esme . . .” I trailed off, shaking my head in wonder. 
Though the rest of them had given up the traditional 
diet of vampires just as absolutely as Carlisle had, he 
was the only one who could bear the smell of my 
blood without suffering from the intense temptation. 



35 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Clearly, this was much more difficult than he made it 
seem. 

“Years and years of practice,” he told me. “I barely 
notice the scent anymore.” 

“Do you think it would be harder if you took a 
vacation from the hospital for a long time? And 
weren’t around any blood?” 

“Maybe.” He shrugged his shoulders, but his hands 
remained steady. “I’ve never felt the need for an 
extended holiday.” He flashed a brilliant smile in my 
direction. “I enjoy my work too much.” 

Plink, plink, plink. I was surprised at how much glass 
there seemed to be in my arm. I was tempted to 
glance at the growing pile, just to check the size, but I 
knew that idea would not be helpful to my no- 
vomiting strategy. 

“What is it that you enjoy?” I wondered. It didn’t make 
sense to me — the years of struggle and self-denial he 
must have spent to get to the point where he could 
endure this so easily. Besides, I wanted to keep him 
talking; the conversation kept my mind off the queasy 
feeling in my stomach. 

His dark eyes were calm and thoughtful as he 
answered. “Hmm. What I enjoy the very most is when 
my . . .enhanced abilities let me save someone who 
would otherwise have been lost. It’s pleasant knowing 
that, thanks to what I can do, some people’s lives are 
better because I exist. Even the sense of smell is a 
useful diagnostic tool at times.” One side of his mouth 
pulled up in half a smile. 

I mulled that over while he poked around, making 
sure all the glass splinters were gone. Then he 

36 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




rummaged in his bag for new tools, and I tried not to 
picture a needle and thread. 

“You try very hard to make up for something that was 
never your fault,” I suggested while a new kind of 
tugging started at the edges of my skin. “What I mean 
is, it’s not like you asked for this. You didn’t choose 
this kind of life, and yet you have to work so hard to 
be good.” 

“I don’t know that I’m making up for anything,” he 
disagreed lightly. “Like everything in life, I just had to 
decide what to do with what I was given.” 

“That makes it sound too easy.” 

He examined my arm again. “There,” he said, 
snipping a thread. “All done.” He wiped an oversized 
Q-tip, dripping with some syrup-colored liquid, 
thoroughly across the operation site. The smell was 
strange; it made my head spin. The syrup stained my 
skin. 

“In the beginning, though,” I pressed while he taped 
another long piece of gauze securely in place, sealing 
it to my skin. “Why did you even think to try a 
different way than the obvious one?” 

His lips turned up in a private smile. “Hasn’t Edward 
told you this story?” 

“Yes. But I’m trying to understand what you were 
thinking....” 

His face was suddenly serious again, and I wondered 
if his thoughts had gone to the same place that mine 
had. Wondering what I would be thinking when — I 
refused to think if — it was me. 



37 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You know my father was a clergyman,” he mused as 
he cleaned the table carefully, rubbing everything 
down with wet gauze, and then doing it again. The 
smell of alcohol burned in my nose. “He had a rather 
harsh view of the world, which I was already 
beginning to question before the time that I changed.” 
Carlisle put all the dirty gauze and the glass slivers 
into an empty crystal bowl. I didn’t understand what 
he was doing, even when he lit the match. Then he 
threw it onto the alcohol-soaked fibers, and the 
sudden blaze made me jump. 

“Sorry,” he apologized. “That ought to do it.... So I 
didn’t agree with my father’s particular brand of faith. 
But never, in the nearly four hundred years now since 
I was born, have I ever seen anything to make me 
doubt whether God exists in some form or the other. 
Not even the reflection in the mirror.” 

I pretended to examine the dressing on my arm to 
hide my surprise at the direction our conversation 
had taken. Religion was the last thing I expected, all 
things considered. My own life was fairly devoid of 
belief. Charlie considered himself a Lutheran, 
because that’s what his parents had been, but 
Sundays he worshipped by the river with a fishing 
pole in his hand. Renee tried out a church now and 
then, but, much like her brief affairs with tennis, 
pottery, yoga, and French classes, she moved on by 
the time I was aware of her newest fad. 

“I’m sure all this sounds a little bizarre, coming from 
a vampire.” He grinned, knowing how their casual use 
of that word never failed to shock me. “But I’m hoping 
that there is still a point to this life, even for us. It’s a 
long shot, I’ll admit,” he continued in an offhand 
voice. “By all accounts, we’re damned regardless. But 
I hope, maybe foolishly, that we’ll get some measure 
of credit for trying.” 

38 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t think that’s foolish,” I mumbled. I couldn’t 
imagine anyone, deity included, who wouldn’t be 
impressed by Carlisle. Besides, the only kind of 
heaven I could appreciate would have to include 
Edward. “And I don’t think anyone else would, 
either.” 

“Actually, you’re the very first one to agree with me.” 

“The rest of them don’t feel the same?” I asked, 
surprised, thinking of only one person in particular. 

Carlisle guessed the direction of my thoughts again. 
“Edward’s with me up to a point. God and heaven 
exist... and so does hell. But he doesn’t believe there is 
an afterlife for our kind.” Carlisle’s voice was very 
soft; he stared out the big window over the sink, into 
the darkness. “You see, he thinks we’ve lost our 
souls.” 

I immediately thought of Edward’s words this 
afternoon: unless you want to die — or whatever it is 
that we do. The lightbulb flicked on over my head. 

“That’s the real problem, isn’t it?” I guessed. “That’s 
why he’s being so difficult about me.” 

Carlisle spoke slowly. “I look at my... son. His 
strength, his goodness, the brightness that shines out 
of him — and it only fuels that hope, that faith, more 
than ever. How could there not be more for one such 
as Edward?” 

I nodded in fervent agreement. 

“But if I believed as he does ...” He looked down at 
me with unfathomable eyes. “If you believed as he 
did. Could you take away his soul?” 



39 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The way he phrased the question thwarted my 
answer. If he’d asked me whether I would risk my 
soul for Edward, the reply would be obvious. But 
would I risk Edward’s soul? I pursed my lips 
unhappily. That wasn’t a fair exchange. 

“You see the problem.” 

I shook my head, aware of the stubborn set of my 
chin. 

Carlisle sighed. 

“It’s my choice,” I insisted. 

“It’s his, too.” He held up his hand when he could see 
that I was about to argue. “Whether he is responsible 
for doing that to you.” 

“He’s not the only one able to do it.” I eyed Carlisle 
speculatively. 

He laughed, abruptly lightening the mood. “Oh, no! 
You’re going to have to work this out with him.” But 
then he sighed. “That’s the one part I can never be 
sure of. I think, in most other ways, that I’ve done the 
best I could with what I had to work with. But was it 
right to doom the others to this life? I can’t decide.” 

I didn’t answer. I imagined what my life would be like 
if Carlisle had resisted the temptation to change his 
lonely existence... and shuddered. 

“It was Edward’s mother who made up my mind.” 
Carlisle’s voice was almost a whisper. He stared 
unseeingly out the black windows. 

“His mother?” Whenever I’d asked Edward about his 
parents, he would merely say that they had died long 

40 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




ago, and his memories were vague. I realized 
Carlisle’s memory of them, despite the brevity of their 
contact, would be perfectly clear. 

“Yes. Her name was Elizabeth. Elizabeth Masen. His 
father, Edward Senior, never regained consciousness 
in the hospital. He died in the first wave of the 
influenza. But Elizabeth was alert until almost the 
very end. Edward looks a great deal like her — she had 
that same strange bronze shade to her hair, and her 
eyes were exactly the same color green.” 

“His eyes were green?” I murmured, trying to picture 
it. 

“Yes....” Carlisle’s ocher eyes were a hundred years 
away now. “Elizabeth worried obsessively over her 
son. She hurt her own chances of survival trying to 
nurse him from her sickbed. I expected that he would 
go first, he was so much worse off than she was. 

When the end came for her, it was very quick. It was 
just after sunset, and I’d arrived to relieve the doctors 
who’d been working all day. That was a hard time to 
pretend — there was so much work to be done, and I 
had no need of rest. How I hated to go back to my 
house, to hide in the dark and pretend to sleep while 
so many were dying. 

“I went to check Elizabeth and her son first. I’d grown 
attached — always a dangerous thing to do considering 
the fragile nature of humans. I could see at once that 
she’d taken a bad turn. The fever was raging out of 
control, and her body was too weak to fight anymore. 

“She didn’t look weak, though, when she glared up at 
me from her cot. 

“‘Save him!’ she commanded me in the hoarse voice 
that was all her throat could manage. 

41 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




‘“I’ll do everything in my power,’ I promised her, 
taking her hand. The fever was so high, she probably 
couldn’t even tell how unnaturally cold mine felt. 
Everything felt cold to her skin. 

“You must,’ she insisted, clutching at my hand with 
enough strength that I wondered if she wouldn’t pull 
through the crisis after all. Her eyes were hard, like 
stones, like emeralds. You must do everything in 
your power. What others cannot do, that is what you 
must do for my Edward.’ 

“It frightened me. She looked at me with those 
piercing eyes, and, for one instant, I felt certain that 
she knew my secret. Then the fever overwhelmed her, 
and she never regained consciousness. She died 
within an hour of making her demand. 

“I’d spent decades considering the idea of creating a 
companion for myself. Just one other creature who 
could really know me, rather than what I pretended to 
be. But I could never justify it to myself — doing what 
had been done to me. 

“There Edward lay, dying. It was clear that he had 
only hours left. Beside him, his mother, her face 
somehow not yet peaceful, not even in death.” 

Carlisle saw it all again, his memory unblurred by the 
intervening century. I could see it clearly, too, as he 
spoke — the despair of the hospital, the overwhelming 
atmosphere of death. Edward burning with fever, his 
life slipping away with each tick of the clock... I 
shuddered again, and forced the picture from my 
mind. 

“Elizabeth’s words echoed in my head. How could she 
guess what I could do? Could anyone really want that 
for her son? 

42 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I looked at Edward. Sick as he was, he was still 
beautiful. There was something pure and good about 
his face. The kind of face I would have wanted my son 
to have. 

“After all those years of indecision, I simply acted on a 
whim. I wheeled his mother to the morgue first, and 
then I came back for him. No one noticed that he was 
still breathing. There weren’t enough hands, enough 
eyes, to keep track of half of what the patients 
needed. The morgue was empty — of the living, at 
least. I stole him out the back door, and carried him 
across the rooftops back to my home. 

“I wasn’t sure what had to be done. I settled for 
recreating the wounds I’d received myself, so many 
centuries earlier in London. I felt bad about that later. 
It was more painful and lingering than necessary. 

“I wasn’t sorry, though. I’ve never been sorry that I 
saved Edward.” He shook his head, coming back to 
the present. He smiled at me. “I suppose I should take 
you home now.” 

“I’ll do that,” Edward said. He came through the 
shadowy dining room, walking slowly for him. His 
face was smooth, unreadable, but there was 
something wrong with his eyes — something he was 
trying very hard to hide. I felt a spasm of unease in 
my stomach. 

“Carlisle can take me,” I said. I looked down at my 
shirt; the light blue cotton was soaked and spotted 
with my blood. My right shoulder was covered in thick 
pink frosting. 

“I’m fine.” Edward’s voice was unemotional. “You’ll 
need to change anyway. You’d give Charlie a heart 



43 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




attack the way you look. I’ll have Alice get you 
something.” He strode out the kitchen door again. 

I looked at Carlisle anxiously. “He’s very upset.” 

“Yes,” Carlisle agreed. “Tonight is exactly the kind of 
thing that he fears the most. You being put in danger, 
because of what we are.” 

“It’s not his fault.” 

“It’s not yours, either.” 

I looked away from his wise, beautiful eyes. I couldn’t 
agree with that. 

Carlisle offered me his hand and helped me up from 
the table. I followed him out into the main room. 

Esme had come back; she was mopping the floor 
where I’d fallen — with straight bleach from the smell 
of it. 

“Esme, let me do that.” I could feel that my face was 
bright red again. 

“I’m already done.” She smiled up at me. “How do you 
feel?” 

“I’m fine,” I assured her. “Carlisle sews faster than 
any other doctor I’ve had.” 

They both chuckled. 

Alice and Edward came in the back doors. Alice 
hurried to my side, but Edward hung back, his face 
indecipherable . 

“C’mon,” Alice said. “I’ll get you something less 
macabre to wear.” 

44 | Page 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




She found me a shirt of Esme’s that was close to the 
same color mine had been. Charlie wouldn’t notice, I 
was sure. The long white bandage on my arm didn’t 
look nearly as serious when I was no longer spattered 
in gore. Charlie was never surprised to see me 
bandaged. 

“Alice,” I whispered as she headed back to the door. 

“Yes?” She kept her voice low, too, and looked at me 
curiously, her head cocked to the side. 

“How bad is it?” I couldn’t be sure if my whispering 
was a wasted effort. Even though we were upstairs, 
with the door closed, perhaps he could hear me. 

Her face tensed. “I’m not sure yet.” 

“How’s Jasper?” 

She sighed. “He’s very unhappy with himself. It’s all 
so much more of challenge for him, and he hates 
feeling weak.” 

“It’s not his fault. You’ll tell him that I’m not mad at 
him, not at all, won’t you?” 

“Of course.” 

Edward was waiting for me by the front door. As I got 
to the bottom of the staircase, he held it open without 
a word. 

“Take your things!” Alice cried as I walked warily 
toward Edward. She scooped up the two packages, 
one half-opened, and my camera from under the 
piano, and pressed them into my good arm. “You can 
thank me later, when you’ve opened them.” 



45 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Esme and Carlisle both said a quiet goodnight. I 
could see them stealing quick glances at their 
impassive son, much like I was. 

It was a relief to be outside; I hurried past the 
lanterns and the roses, now unwelcome reminders. 
Edward kept pace with me silently. He opened the 
passenger side for me, and I climbed in without 
complaint. 

On the dashboard was a big red ribbon, stuck to the 
new stereo. I pulled it off, throwing it to the floor. As 
Edward slid into the other side, I kicked the ribbon 
under my seat. 

He didn’t look at me or the stereo. Neither of us 
switched it on, and the silence was somehow 
intensified by the sudden thunder of the engine. He 
drove too fast down the dark, serpentine lane. 

The silence was making me insane. 

“Say something,” I finally begged as he turned onto 
the freeway. 

“What do you want me to say?” he asked in a 
detached voice. 

I cringed at his remoteness. “Tell me you forgive me.” 

That brought a flicker of life to his face — a flicker of 
anger. “Forgive you? For what?” 

“If I’d been more careful, nothing would have 
happened.” 

“Bella, you gave yourself a paper cut — that hardly 
deserves the death penalty.” 



46 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s still my fault.” 

My words opened up the floodgate. 

“Your fault? If you’d cut yourself at Mike Newton’s 
house, with Jessica there and Angela and your other 
normal friends, the worst that could possibly have 
happened would be what? Maybe they couldn’t find 
you a bandage? If you’d tripped and knocked over a 
pile of glass plates on your own — without someone 
throwing you into them — even then, what’s the worst? 
You’d get blood on the seats when they drove you to 
the emergency room? Mike Newton could have held 
your hand while they stitched you up — and he 
wouldn’t be fighting the urge to kill you the whole 
time he was there. Don’t try to take any of this on 
yourself, Bella. It will only make me more disgusted 
with myself.” 

“How the hell did Mike Newton end up in this 
conversation?” I demanded. 

“Mike Newton ended up in this conversation because 
Mike Newton would be a hell of a lot healthier for you 
to be with,” he growled. 

“I’d rather die than be with Mike Newton,” I protested. 
“I’d rather die than be with anyone but you.” 

“Don’t be melodramatic, please.” 

“Well then, don’t you be ridiculous.” 

He didn’t answer. He glared through the windshield, 
his expression black. 

I racked my brain for some way to salvage the 
evening. When we pulled up in front of my house, I 
still hadn’t come up with anything. 

47 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He killed the engine, but his hands stayed clenched 
around the steering wheel. 

“Will you stay tonight?” I asked. 

“I should go home.” 

The last thing I wanted was for him to go wallow in 
remorse. 

“For my birthday,” I pressed. 

“You can’t have it both ways — either you want people 
to ignore your birthday or you don’t. One or the 
other.” His voice was stern, but not as serious as 
before. I breathed a silent sigh of relief. 

“Okay. I’ve decided that I don’t want you to ignore my 
birthday. I’ll see you upstairs.” 

I hopped out, reaching back in for my packages. He 
frowned. 

“You don’t have to take those.” 

“I want them,” I responded automatically, and then 
wondered if he was using reverse psychology. 

“No, you don’t. Carlisle and Esme spent money on 
you.” 

“I’ll live.” I tucked the presents awkwardly under my 
good arm and slammed the door behind me. He was 
out of the truck and by my side in less than a second. 

“Let me carry them, at least,” he said as he took them 
away. “I’ll be in your room.” 



I smiled. “Thanks.” 

48 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Happy birthday,” he sighed, and leaned down to 
touch his lips to mine. 

I reached up on my toes to make the kiss last longer 
when he pulled away. He smiled my favorite crooked 
smile, and then he disappeared into the darkness. 

The game was still on; as soon as I walked through 
the front door I could hear the announcer rambling 
over the babble of the crowd. 

“Bell?” Charlie called. 

“Hey, Dad,” I said as I came around the corner. I held 
my arm close to my side. The slight pressure burned, 
and I wrinkled my nose. The anesthetic was 
apparently losing its effectiveness. 

“How was it?” Charlie lounged across the sofa with 
his bare feet propped up on the arm. What was left of 
his curly brown hair was crushed flat on one side. 

“Alice went overboard. Flowers, cake, candles, 
presents — the whole bit.” 

“What did they get you?” 

“A stereo for my truck.” And various unknowns. 
“Wow.” 

“Yeah,” I agreed. “Well, I’m calling it a night.” 

“I’ll see you in the morning.” 

I waved. “See ya.” 

“What happened to your arm?” 



49 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I flushed and cursed silently. “I tripped. It’s nothing.” 



“Bella,” he sighed, shaking his head. 

“Goodnight, Dad.” 

I hurried up to the bathroom, where I kept my 
pajamas for just such nights as these. I shrugged into 
the matching tank top and cotton pants that I’d 
gotten to replace the holey sweats I used to wear to 
bed, wincing as the movement pulled at the stitches. I 
washed my face one-handed, brushed my teeth, and 
then skipped to my room. 

He was sitting in the center of my bed, toying idly 
with one of the silver boxes. 

“Hi,” he said. His voice was sad. He was wallowing. 

I went to the bed, pushed the presents out of his 
hands, and climbed into his lap. 

“Hi.” I snuggled into his stone chest. “Can I open my 
presents now?” 

“Where did the enthusiasm come from?” he wondered. 
“You made me curious.” 

I picked up the long flat rectangle that must have 
been from Carlisle and Esme. 

“Allow me,” he suggested. He took the gift frommy 
hand and tore the silver paper off with one 
fluidmovement. He handed the rectangular white box 
back to me. 

“Are you sure I can handle lifting the lid?” I muttered, 
but he ignored me. 

50 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Inside the box was a long thick piece of paper with an 
overwhelming amount of fine print. It took me a 
minute to get the gist of the information. 

“We’re going to Jacksonville?” And I was excited, in 
spite of myself. It was a voucher for plane tickets, for 
both me and Edward. 

“That’s the idea.” 

“I can’t believe it. Renee is going to flip! You don’t 
mind, though, do you? It’s sunny, you’ll have to stay 
inside all day.” 

“I think I can handle it,” he said, and then frowned. 

“If I’d had any idea that you could respond to a gift 
this appropriately, I would have made you open it in 
front of Carlisle and Esme. I thought you’d complain.” 

“Well, of course it’s too much. But I get to take you 
with me!” 

He chuckled. “Now I wish I’d spent money on your 
present. I didn’t realize that you were capable of being 
reasonable.” 

I set the tickets aside and reached for his present, my 
curiosity rekindled. He took it from me and 
unwrapped it like the first one. 

He handed back a clear CD jewel case, with a blank 
silver CD inside. 

“What is it?” I asked, perplexed. 

He didn’t say anything; he took the CD and reached 
around me to put it in the CD player on the bedside 
table. He hit play, and we waited in silence. Then the 
music began. 

51 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I listened, speechless and wide-eyed. I knew he was 
waiting for my reaction, but I couldn’t talk. Tears 
welled up, and I reached up to wipe them away before 
they could spill over. 

“Does your arm hurt?” he asked anxiously. 

“No, it’s not my arm. It’s beautiful, Edward. You 
couldn’t have given me anything I would love more. I 
can’t believe it.” I shut up, so I could listen. 

It was his music, his compositions. The first piece on 
the CD was my lullaby. 

“I didn’t think you would let me get a piano so I could 
play for you here,” he explained. 

“You’re right.” 

“How does your arm feel?” 

“Just fine.” Actually, it was starting to blaze under the 
bandage. I wanted ice. I would have settled for his 
hand, but that would have given me away. 

“I’ll get you some Tylenol.” 

“I don’t need anything,” I protested, but he slid me off 
his lap and headed for the door. 

“Charlie,” I hissed. Charlie wasn’t exactly aware that 
Edward frequently stayed over. In fact, he would have 
a stroke if that fact were brought to his attention. But 
I didn’t feel too guilty for deceiving him. It wasn’t as if 
we were up to anything he wouldn’t want me to be up 
to. Edward and his rules... 

“He won’t catch me,” Edward promised as he 
disappeared silently out the door... and returned, 

52 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




catching the door before it had swung back to touch 
the frame. He had the glass from the bathroom and 
the bottle of pills in one hand. 

I took the pills he handed me without arguing — I 
knew I would lose the argument. And my arm really 
was starting to bother me. 

My lullaby continued, soft and lovely, in the 
background. 

“It’s late,” Edward noted. He scooped me up off the 
bed with one arm, and pulled the cover back with the 
other. He put me down with my head on my pillow 
and tucked the quilt around me. He lay down next to 
me — on top of the blanket so I wouldn’t get chilled — 
and put his arm over me. 

I leaned my head against his shoulder and sighed 
happily. 

“Thanks again,” I whispered. 

“You’re welcome.” 

It was quiet for a long moment as I listened to my 
lullaby drift to a close. Another song began. I 
recognized Esme’s favorite. 

“What are you thinking about?” I wondered in a 
whisper. 

He hesitated for a second before he told me. “I was 
thinking about right and wrong, actually.” 

I felt a chill tingle along my spine. 



53 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Remember how I decided that I wanted you to not 
ignore my birthday?” I asked quickly, hoping it wasn’t 
too clear that I was trying to distract him. 

“Yes,” he agreed, wary. 

“Well, I was thinking, since it’s still my birthday, that 
I’d like you to kiss me again.” 

“You’re greedy tonight.” 

“Yes, I am — but please, don’t do anything you don’t 
want to do,” I added, piqued. 

He laughed, and then sighed. “Heaven forbid that I 
should do anything I don’t want to do,” he said in a 
strangely desperate tone as he put his hand under my 
chin and pulled my face up to his. 

The kiss began much the same as usual — Edward 
was as careful as ever, and my heart began to 
overreact like it always did. And then something 
seemed to change. Suddenly his lips became much 
more urgent, his free hand twisted into my hair and 
held my face securely to his. And, though my hands 
tangled in his hair, too, and though I was clearly 
beginning to cross his cautious lines, for once he 
didn’t stop me. His body was cold through the thin 
quilt, but I crushed myself against him eagerly. 

When he stopped it was abrupt; he pushed me away 
with gentle, firm hands. 

I collapsed back onto my pillow, gasping, my head 
spinning. Something tugged at my memory, elusive, 
on the edges. 

“Sorry,” he said, and he was breathless, too. “That 
was out of line.” 

54 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t mind,” I panted. 

He frowned at me in the darkness. “Try to sleep, 
Bella.” 

“No, I want you to kiss me again.” 

“You’re overestimating my self-control.” 

“Which is tempting you more, my blood or my body?” 
I challenged. 

“It’s a tie.” He grinned briefly in spite of himself, and 
then was serious again. “Now, why don’t you stop 
pushing your luck and go to sleep?” 

“Fine,” I agreed, snuggling closer to him. I really did 
feel exhausted. It had been a long day in so many 
ways, yet I felt no sense of relief at its end. Almost as 
if something worse was coming tomorrow. It was a 
silly premonition — what could be worse than today? 
Just the shock catching up with me, no doubt. 

Trying to be sneaky about it, I pressed my injured 
arm against his shoulder, so his cool skin would 
sooth the burning. It felt better at once. 

I was halfway asleep, maybe more, when I realized 
what his kiss had reminded me of: last spring, when 
he’d had to leave me to throw James off my trail, 
Edward had kissed me goodbye, not knowing when — 
or if — we would see each other again. This kiss had 
the same almost painful edge for some reason I 
couldn’t imagine. I shuddered into unconsciousness, 
as if I were already having a nightmare. 



55 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





I felt absolutely hideous in the morning. I hadn't slept 
well; my arm burned and my head ached. It didn’t 
help my outlook that Edward’s face was smooth and 
remote as he kissed my forehead quickly and ducked 
out my window. I was afraid of the time I’d spent 
unconscious, afraid that he might have been thinking 
about right and wrong again while he watched me 
sleep. The anxiety seemed to ratchet up the intensity 
of the pounding in my head. 

Edward was waiting for me at school, as usual, but 
his face was still wrong. There was something buried 
in his eyes that I couldn’t be sure of — and it scared 
me. I didn’t want to bring up last night, but I wasn’t 
sure if avoiding the subject would be worse. 

He opened my door for me. 

“How do you feel?” 

“Perfect,” I lied, cringing as the sound of the 
slamming door echoed in my head. 

We walked in silence, he shortening his stride to 
match mine. There were so many questions I wanted 
to ask, but most of those questions would have to 
wait, because they were for Alice: How was Jasper 
this morning? What had they said when I was gone? 
What had Rosalie said? And most importantly, what 
could she see happening now in her strange, 
imperfect visions of the future? Could she guess what 
Edward was thinking, why he was so gloomy? Was 
there a foundation for the tenuous, instinctive fears 
that I couldn’t seem to shake? 

56 | Page 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



The morning passed slowly. I was impatient to see 
Alice, though I wouldn’t be able to really talk to her 
with Edward there. Edward remained aloof. 
Occasionally he would ask about my arm, and I 
would lie. 

Alice usually beat us to lunch; she didn’t have to keep 
pace with a sloth like me. But she wasn’t at the table, 
waiting with a tray of food she wouldn’t eat. 

Edward didn’t say anything about her absence. I 
wondered to myself if her class was running late — 
until I saw Conner and Ben, who were in her fourth 
hour French class. 

“Where’s Alice?” I asked Edward anxiously. 

He looked at the granola bar he was slowly 
pulverizing between his fingertips while he answered. 
“She’s with Jasper.” 

“Is he okay?” 

“He’s gone away for a while.” 

“What? Where?” 

Edward shrugged. “Nowhere in particular.” 

“And Alice, too,” I said with quiet desperation. Of 
course, if Jasper needed her, she would go. 

“Yes. Shell be gone for a while. She was trying to 
convince him to go to Denali.” 

Denali was where the one other band of unique 
vampires — good ones like the Cullens — lived. Tanya 
and her family. I’d heard of them now and again. 
Edward had run to them last winter when my arrival 

57 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




had made Forks difficult for him. Laurent, the most 
civilized member of James’s little coven, had gone 
there rather than siding with James against the 
Cullens. It made sense for Alice to encourage Jasper 
to go there. 

I swallowed, trying to dislodge the sudden lump in my 
throat. The guilt made my head bow and my 
shoulders slump. I’d run them out of their home, just 
like Rosalie and Emmett. I was a plague. 

“Is your arm bothering you?” he asked solicitously. 

“Who cares about my stupid arm?” I muttered in 
disgust. 

He didn’t answer, and I put my head down on the 
table. 

By the end of the day, the silence was becoming 
ridiculous. I didn’t want to be the one to break it, but 
apparently that was my only choice if I ever wanted 
him to talk to me again. 

“You’ll come over later tonight?” I asked as he walked 
me — silently — to my truck. He always came over. 

“Later?” 

It pleased me that he seemed surprised. “I have to 
work. I had to trade with Mrs. Newton to get 
yesterday off.” 

“Oh,” he murmured. 

“So you’ll come over when I’m home, though, right?” I 
hated that I felt suddenly unsure about this. 

“If you want me to.” 

58 | Page 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I always want you,” I reminded him, with perhaps a 
little more intensity than the conversation required. 

I expected he would laugh, or smile, or react somehow 
to my words. 

“All right, then,” he said indifferently. 

He kissed my forehead again before he shut the door 
on me. Then he turned his back and loped gracefully 
toward his car. 

I was able to drive out of the parking lot before the 
panic really hit, but I was hyperventilating by the 
time I got to Newton’s. 

He just needed time, I told myself. He would get over 
this. Maybe he was sad because his family was 
disappearing. But Alice and Jasper would come back 
soon, and Rosalie and Emmett, too. If it would help, I 
would stay away from the big white house on the 
river — I’d never set foot there again. That didn’t 
matter. I’d still see Alice at school. She would have to 
come back for school, right? And she was at my place 
all the time anyway. She wouldn’t want to hurt 
Charlie’s feelings by staying away. 

No doubt I would also run into Carlisle with 
regularity — in the emergency room. 

After all, what had happened last night was nothing. 
Nothing had happened. So I fell down — that was the 
story of my life. Compared to last spring, it seemed 
especially unimportant. James had left me broken 
and nearly dead from loss of blood — and yet Edward 
had handled the interminable weeks in the hospital 
much better than this. Was it because, this time, it 
wasn’t an enemy he’d had to protect me from? 
Because it was his brother? 

59 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Maybe it would be better if he took me away, rather 
than his family being scattered. I grew slightly less 
depressed as I considered all the uninterrupted alone 
time. If he could just last through the school year, 
Charlie wouldn’t be able to object. We could go away 
to college, or pretend that’s what we were doing, like 
Rosalie and Emmett this year. Surely Edward could 
wait a year. What was a year to an immortal? It didn’t 
even seem like that much to me. 

I was able to talk myself into enough composure to 
handle getting out of the truck and walking to the 
store. Mike Newton had beaten me here today, and he 
smiled and waved when I came in. I grabbed my vest, 
nodding vaguely in his direction. I was still imagining 
pleasant scenarios that consisted of me running away 
with Edward to various exotic locales. 

Mike interrupted my fantasy. “How was your 
birthday?” 

“Ugh,” I mumbled. “I’m glad it’s over.” 

Mike looked at me from the corners of his eyes like I 
was crazy. 

Work dragged. I wanted to see Edward again, praying 
that he would be past the worst of this, whatever it 
was exactly, by the time I saw him again. It’s nothing, 
I told myself over and over again. Everything will go 
back to normal. 

The relief I felt when I turned onto my street and saw 
Edward’s silver car parked in front of my house was 
an overwhelming, heady thing. And it bothered me 
deeply that it should be that way. 

I hurried through the front door, calling out before I 
was completely inside. 

60 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Dad? Edward?” 



As I spoke, I could hear the distinctive theme music 
from ESPN’s SportsCenter coming from the living 
room. 

“In here,” Charlie called. 

I hung my raincoat on its peg and hurried around the 
corner. 

Edward was in the armchair, my father on the sofa. 
Both had their eyes trained on the TV. The focus was 
normal for my father. Not so much for Edward. 

“Hi,” I said weakly. 

“Hey, Bella,” my father answered, eyes never moving. 
“We just had cold pizza. I think it’s still on the table.” 

“Okay.” 

I waited in the doorway. Finally, Edward looked over 
at me with a polite smile. “I’ll be right behind you,” he 
promised. His eyes strayed back to the TV. 

I stared for another minute, shocked. Neither one 
seemed to notice. I could feel something, panic 
maybe, building up in my chest. I escaped to the 
kitchen. 

The pizza held no interest for me. I sat in my chair, 
pulled my knees up, and wrapped my arms around 
them. Something was very wrong, maybe more wrong 
than I’d realized. The sounds of male bonding and 
banter continued from the TV set. 

I tried to get control of myself, to reason with myself. 
What’s the worst that can happen? I flinched. That 

61 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was definitely the wrong question to ask. I was having 
a hard time breathing right. 

Okay, I thought again, what’s the worst I can live 
through? I didn’t like that question so much, either. 
But I thought through the possibilities I’d considered 
today. 

Staying away from Edward’s family. Of course, he 
wouldn’t expect Alice to be part of that. But if Jasper 
was off limits, that would lessen the time I could have 
with her. I nodded to myself — I could live with that. 

Or going away. Maybe he wouldn’t want to wait till 
the end of the school year, maybe it would have to be 
now. 

In front of me, on the table, my presents from Charlie 
and Renee were where I had left them, the camera I 
hadn’t had the chance to use at the Cullens’ sitting 
beside the album. I touched the pretty cover of the 
scrapbook my mother had given me, and sighed, 
thinking of Renee. Somehow, living without her for as 
long as I had did not make the idea of a more 
permanent separation easier. And Charlie would be 
left all alone here, abandoned. They would both be so 
hurt... 

But we’d come back, right? We’d visit, of course, 
wouldn’t we? 

I couldn’t be certain about the answer to that. 

I leaned my cheek against my knee, staring at the 
physical tokens of my parents’ love. I’d known this 
path I’d chosen was going to be hard. And, after all, I 
was thinking about the worst-case scenario — the very 
worst I could live through. 



62 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I touched the scrapbook again, flipping the front cover 
over. Little metal corners were already in place to hold 
the first picture. It wasn’t a half-bad idea, to make 
some record of my life here. I felt a strange urge to get 
started. Maybe I didn’t have that long left in Forks. 

I toyed with the wrist strap on the camera, wondering 
about the first picture on the roll. Could it possibly 
turn out anything close to the original? I doubted it. 
But he didn’t seem worried that it would be blank. I 
chuckled to myself, thinking of his carefree laughter 
last night. The chuckle died away. So much had 
changed, and so abruptly. It made me feel a little bit 
dizzy, like I was standing on an edge, a precipice 
somewhere much too high. 

I didn’t want to think about that anymore. I grabbed 
the camera and headed up the stairs. 

My room hadn’t really changed all that much in the 
seventeen years since my mother had been here. The 
walls were still light blue, the same yellowed lace 
curtains hung in front of the window. There was a 
bed, rather than a crib, but she would recognize the 
quilt draped untidily over the top — it had been a gift 
from Gran. 

Regardless, I snapped a picture of my room. There 
wasn’t much else I could do tonight — it was too dark 
outside — and the feeling was growing stronger, it was 
almost a compulsion now. I would record everything 
about Forks before I had to leave it. 

Change was coming. I could feel it. It wasn’t a 
pleasant prospect, not when life was perfect the way it 
was. 

I took my time coming back down the stairs, camera 
in hand, trying to ignore the butterflies in my 

63 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




stomach as I thought of the strange distance I didn’t 
want to see in Edward’s eyes. He would get over this. 
Probably he was worried that I would be upset when 
he asked me to leave. I would let him work through it 
without meddling. And I would be prepared when he 
asked. 

I had the camera ready as I leaned around the corner, 
being sneaky. I was sure there was no chance that I 
had caught Edward by surprise, but he didn’t look 
up. I felt a brief shiver as something icy twisted in my 
stomach; I ignored that and took the picture. 

They both looked at me then. Charlie frowned. 
Edward’s face was empty, expressionless. 

“What are you doing, Bella?” Charlie complained. 

“Oh, come on.” I pretended to smile as I went to sit on 
the floor in front of the sofa where Charlie lounged. 
“You know Mom will be calling soon to ask if I’m 
using my presents. I have to get to work before she 
can get her feelings hurt.” 

“Why are you taking pictures of me, though?” he 
grumbled. 

“Because you’re so handsome,” I replied, keeping it 
light. “And because, since you bought the camera, 
you’re obligated to be one of my subjects.” 

He mumbled something unintelligible. 

“Hey, Edward,” I said with admirable indifference. 
“Take one of me and my dad together.” 

I threw the camera toward him, carefully avoiding his 
eyes, and knelt beside the arm of the sofa where 
Charlie’s face was. Charlie sighed. 

64 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You need to smile, Bella,” Edward murmured. 

I did my best, and the camera flashed. 

“Let me take one of you kids,” Charlie suggested. I 
knew he was just trying to shift the camera’s focus 
from himself. 

Edward stood and lightly tossed him the camera. 

I went to stand beside Edward, and the arrangement 
felt formal and strange to me. He put one hand lightly 
on my shoulder, and I wrapped my arm more securely 
around his waist. I wanted to look at his face, but I 
was afraid to. 

“Smile, Bella,” Charlie reminded me again. 

I took a deep breath and smiled. The flash blinded 
me. 

“Enough pictures for tonight,” Charlie said then, 
shoving the camera into a crevice of the sofa cushions 
and rolling over it. “You don’t have to use the whole 
roll now.” 

Edward dropped his hand from my shoulder and 
twisted casually out of my arm. He sat back down in 
the armchair. 

I hesitated, and then went to sit against the sofa 
again. I was suddenly so frightened that my hands 
were shaking. I pressed them into my stomach to hide 
them, put my chin on my knees and stared at the TV 
screen in front of me, seeing nothing. 

When the show ended, I hadn’t moved an inch. Out of 
the corner of my eye, I saw Edward stand. 



65 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’d better get home,” he said. 

Charlie didn’t look up from the commercial. “See ya.” 

I got awkwardly to my feet — I was stiff from sitting so 
still — and followed Edward out the front door. He 
went straight to his car. 

“Will you stay?” I asked, no hope in my voice. 

I expected his answer, so it didn’t hurt as much. 

“Not tonight.” 

I didn’t ask for a reason. 

He got in his car and drove away while I stood there, 
unmoving. I barely noticed that it was raining. I 
waited, without knowing what I waited for, until the 
door opened behind me. 

“Bella, what are you doing?” Charlie asked, surprised 
to see me standing there alone and dripping. 

“Nothing.” I turned and trudged back to the house. 

It was a long night, with little in the way of rest. 

I got up as soon as there was a faint light outside my 
window. I dressed for school mechanically, waiting for 
the clouds to brighten. When I had eaten a bowl of 
cereal, I decided that it was light enough for pictures. 

I took one of my truck, and then the front of the 
house. I turned and snapped a few of the forest by 
Charlie’s house. Funny how it didn’t seem sinister 
like it used to. I realized I would miss this — the green, 
the timelessness, the mystery of the woods. All of it. 



66 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I put the camera in my school bag before I left. I tried 
to concentrate on my new project rather than the fact 
that Edward apparently hadn’t gotten over things 
during the night. 

Along with the fear, I was beginning to feel 
impatience. How long could this last? 

It lasted through the morning. He walked silently 
beside me, never seeming to actually look at me. I 
tried to concentrate on my classes, but not even 
English could hold my attention. Mr. Berty had to 
repeat his question about Lady Capulet twice before I 
realized he was talking to me. Edward whispered the 
correct answer under his breath and then went back 
to ignoring me. 

At lunch, the silence continued. I felt like I was going 
to start screaming at any moment, so, to distract 
myself, I leaned across the table’s invisible line and 
spoke to Jessica. 

“Hey, Jess?” 

“What’s up, Bella?” 

“Could you do me a favor?” I asked, reaching into my 
bag. “My mom wants me to get some pictures of my 
friends for a scrapbook. So, take some pictures of 
everybody, okay?” 

I handed her the camera. 

“Sure,” she said, grinning, and turned to snap a 
candid shot of Mike with his mouth full. 

A predictable picture war ensued. I watched them 
hand the camera around the table, giggling and 
flirting and complaining about being on film. It 

67 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




seemed strangely childish. Maybe I just wasn’t in the 
mood for normal human behavior today. 



“Uh-oh,” Jessica said apologetically as she returned 
the camera. “I think we used all your film.” 

“That’s okay. I think I already got pictures of 
everything else I needed.” 

After school, Edward walked me back to the parking 
lot in silence. I had to work again, and for once, I was 
glad. Time with me obviously wasn’t helping things. 
Maybe time alone would be better. 

I dropped my film off at the Thriftway on my way to 
Newton’s, and then picked up the developed pictures 
after work. At home, I said a brief hi to Charlie, 
grabbed a granola bar from the kitchen, and hurried 
up to my room with the envelope of photographs 
tucked under my arm. 

I sat in the middle of my bed and opened the envelope 
with wary curiosity. Ridiculously, I still half expected 
the first print to be a blank. 

When I pulled it out, I gasped aloud. Edward looked 
just as beautiful as he did in real life, staring at me 
out of the picture with the warm eyes I’d missed for 
the past few days. It was almost uncanny that anyone 
could look so... so... beyond description. No thousand 
words could equal this picture. 

I flipped through the rest of the stack quickly once, 
and then laid three of them out on the bed side by 
side. 

The first was the picture of Edward in the kitchen, his 
warm eyes touched with tolerant amusement. The 
second was Edward and Charlie, watching ESPN. The 

68 | Page New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




difference in Edward’s expression was severe. His 
eyes were careful here, reserved. Still breathtakingly 
beautiful, but his face was colder, more like a 
sculpture, less alive. 

The last was the picture of Edward and me standing 
awkwardly side by side. Edward’s face was the same 
as the last, cold and statue-like. But that wasn’t the 
most troubling part of this photograph. The contrast 
between the two of us was painful. He looked like a 
god. I looked very average, even for a human, almost 
shamefully plain. I flipped the picture over with a 
feeling of disgust. 

Instead of doing my homework, I stayed up to put my 
pictures into the album. With a ballpoint pen I 
scrawled captions under all the pictures, the names 
and the dates. I got to the picture of Edward and me, 
and, without looking at it too long, I folded it in half 
and stuck it under the metal tab, Edward-side up. 

When I was done, I stuffed the second set of prints in 
a fresh envelope and penned a long thank-you letter 
to Renee. 

Edward still hadn’t come over. I didn’t want to admit 
that he was the reason I’d stayed up so late, but of 
course he was. I tried to remember the last time he’d 
stayed away like this, without an excuse, a phone 
call... He never had. 

Again, I didn’t sleep well. 

School followed the silent, frustrating, terrifying 
pattern of the last two days. I felt relief when I saw 
Edward waiting for me in the parking lot, but it faded 
quickly. He was no different, unless maybe more 
remote. 



69 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It was hard to even remember the reason for all this 
mess. My birthday already felt like the distant past. If 
only Alice would come back. Soon. Before this got any 
more out of hand. 

But I couldn’t count on that. I decided that, if I 
couldn’t talk to him today, really talk, then I was 
going to see Carlisle tomorrow. I had to do something. 

After school, Edward and I were going to talk it out, I 
promised myself. I wasn’t accepting any excuses. 

He walked me to my truck, and I steeled myself to 
make my demands. 

“Do you mind if I come over today?” he asked before 
we got to the truck, beating me to the punch. 

“Of course not.” 

“Now?” he asked again, opening my door for me. 

“Sure,” I kept my voice even, though I didn’t like the 
urgency in his tone. “I was just going to drop a letter 
for Renee in the mailbox on the way. I’ll meet you 
there.” 

He looked at the fat envelope on the passenger seat. 
Suddenly, he reached over me and snagged it. 

“I’ll do it,” he said quietly. “And I’ll still beat you 
there.” He smiled my favorite crooked smile, but it 
was wrong. It didn’t reach his eyes. 

“Okay,” I agreed, unable to smile back. He shut the 
door, and headed toward his car. 

He did beat me home. He was parked in Charlie’s spot 
when I pulled up in front of the house. That was a 

70 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




bad sign. He didn’t plan to stay, then. I shook my 
head and took a deep breath, trying to locate some 
courage. 

He got out of his car when I stepped out of the truck, 
and came to meet me. He reached to take my book 
bag from me. That was normal. But he shoved it back 
onto the seat. That was not normal. 

“Come for a walk with me,” he suggested in an 
unemotional voice, taking my hand. 

I didn’t answer. I couldn’t think of a way to protest, 
but I instantly knew that I wanted to. I didn’t like 
this. This is bad, this is very bad, the voice in my 
head repeated again and again. 

But he didn’t wait for an answer. He pulled me along 
toward the east side of the yard, where the forest 
encroached. I followed unwillingly, trying to think 
through the panic. It was what I wanted, I reminded 
myself. The chance to talk it all through. So why was 
the panic choking me? 

We’d gone only a few steps into the trees when he 
stopped. We were barely on the trail — I could still see 
the house. 

Some walk. 

Edward leaned against a tree and stared at me, his 
expression unreadable. 

“Okay, let’s talk,” I said. It sounded braver than it felt. 
He took a deep breath. 

“Bella, we’re leaving.” 



71 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I took a deep breath, too. This was an acceptable 
option. I thought I was prepared. But I still had to 
ask. 

“Why now? Another year — ” 

“Bella, it’s time. How much longer could we stay in 
Forks, after all? Carlisle can barely pass for thirty, 
and he’s claiming thirty-three now. We’d have to start 
over soon regardless.” 

His answer confused me. I thought the point of 
leaving was to let his family live in peace. Why did we 
have to leave if they were going? I stared at him, 
trying to understand what he meant. 

He stared back coldly. 

With a roll of nausea, I realized I’d misunderstood. 

“When you say we — ,” I whispered. 

“I mean my family and myself.” Each word separate 
and distinct. 

I shook my head back and forth mechanically, trying 
to clear it. He waited without any sign of impatience. 

It took a few minutes before I could speak. 

“Okay,” I said. “I’ll come with you.” 

“You can’t, Bella. Where we’re going... It’s not the right 
place for you.” 

“Where you are is the right place for me.” 

“I’m no good for you, Bella.” 



72 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t be ridiculous.” I wanted to sound angry, but it 
just sounded like I was begging. “You’re the very best 
part of my life.” 

“My world is not for you,” he said grimly. 

“What happened with Jasper — that was nothing, 
Edward! Nothing!” 

“You’re right,” he agreed. “It was exactly what was to 
be expected.” 

“You promised! In Phoenix, you promised that you 
would stay — ” 

“As long as that was best for you,” he interrupted to 
correct me. 

“No! This is about my soul, isn’t it?” I shouted, 
furious, the words exploding out of me — somehow it 
still sounded like a plea. “Carlisle told me about that, 
and I don’t care, Edward. I don’t care! You can have 
my soul. I don’t want it without you — it’s yours 
already!” 

He took a deep breath and stared, unseeingly, at the 
ground for a long moment. His mouth twisted the 
tiniest bit. When he finally looked up, his eyes were 
different, harder — like the liquid gold had frozen solid. 

“Bella, I don’t want you to come with me.” He spoke 
the words slowly and precisely, his cold eyes on my 
face, watching as I absorbed what he was really 
saying. 

There was a pause as I repeated the words in my 
head a few times, sifting through them for their real 
intent. 



73 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You... don’t... want me?” I tried out the words, 
confused by the way they sounded, placed in that 
order. 

“No.” 

I stared, uncomprehending, into his eyes. He stared 
back without apology. His eyes were like topaz — hard 
and clear and very deep. I felt like I could see into 
them for miles and miles, yet nowhere in their 
bottomless depths could I see a contradiction to the 
word he’d spoken. 

“Well, that changes things.” I was surprised by how 
calm and reasonable my voice sounded. It must be 
because I was so numb. I couldn’t realize what he was 
telling me. It still didn’t make any sense. 

He looked away into the trees as he spoke again. “Of 
course, I’ll always love you... in a way. But what 
happened the other night made me realize that it’s 
time for a change. Because I’m... tired of pretending to 
be something I’m not, Bella. I am not human.” He 
looked back, and the icy planes of his perfect face 
were not human. “I’ve let this go on much too long, 
and I’m sorry for that.” 

“Don’t.” My voice was just a whisper now; awareness 
was beginning to seep through me, trickling like acid 
through my veins. “Don’t do this.” 

He just stared at me, and I could see from his eyes 
that my words were far too late. He already had. 

“You’re not good for me, Bella.” He turned his earlier 
words around, and so I had no argument. How well I 
knew that I wasn’t good enough for him. 



74 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I opened my mouth to say something, and then closed 
it again. He waited patiently, his face wiped clean of 
all emotion. I tried again. 

“If... that’s what you want.” 

He nodded once. 

My whole body went numb. I couldn’t feel anything 
below the neck. 

“I would like to ask one favor, though, if that’s not too 
much,” he said. 

I wonder what he saw on my face, because something 
flickered across his own face in response. But, before 
I could identify it, he’d composed his features into the 
same serene mask. 

“Anything,” I vowed, my voice faintly stronger. 

As I watched, his frozen eyes melted. The gold became 
liquid again, molten, burning down into mine with an 
intensity that was overwhelming. 

“Don’t do anything reckless or stupid,” he ordered, no 
longer detached. “Do you understand what I’m 
saying?” 

I nodded helplessly. 

His eyes cooled, the distance returned. “I’m thinking 
of Charlie, of course. He needs you. Take care of 
yourself — for him.” 

I nodded again. “I will,” I whispered. 

He seemed to relax just a little. 



75 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“And I’ll make you a promise in return,” he said. “I 
promise that this will be the last time you’ll see me. I 
won’t come back. I won’t put you through anything 
like this again. You can go on with your life without 
any more interference from me. It will be as if I’d 
never existed.” 

My knees must have started to shake, because the 
trees were suddenly wobbling. I could hear the blood 
pounding faster than normal behind my ears. His 
voice sounded farther away. 

He smiled gently. “Don’t worry. You’re human — your 
memory is no more than a sieve. Time heals all 
wounds for your kind.” 

“And your memories?” I asked. It sounded like there 
was something stuck in my throat, like I was choking. 

“Well” — he hesitated for a short second — “I won’t 
forget. But my kind... we ’re very easily distracted.” He 
smiled; the smile was tranquil and it did not touch 
his eyes. 

He took a step away from me. “That’s everything, I 
suppose. We won’t bother you again.” 

The plural caught my attention. That surprised me; I 
would have thought I was beyond noticing anything. 

“Alice isn’t coming back,” I realized. I don’t know how 
he heard me — the words made no sound — but he 
seemed to understand. 

He shook his head slowly, always watching my face. 

“No. They’re all gone. I stayed behind to tell you 
goodbye.” 



76 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alice is gone?” My voice was blank with disbelief. 



“She wanted to say goodbye, but I convinced her that 
a clean break would be better for you.” 

I was dizzy; it was hard to concentrate. His words 
swirled around in my head, and I heard the doctor at 
the hospital in Phoenix, last spring, as he showed me 
the X-rays. You can see it’s a clean break, his finger 
traced along the picture of my severed bone. That’s 
good. It will heal more easily, more quickly. 

I tried to breathe normally. I needed to concentrate, to 
find a way out of this nightmare. 

“Goodbye, Bella,” he said in the same quiet, peaceful 
voice. 

“Wait!” I choked out the word, reaching for him, 
willing my deadened legs to carry me forward. 

I thought he was reaching for me, too. But his cold 
hands locked around my wrists and pinned them to 
my sides. He leaned down, and pressed his lips very 
lightly to my forehead for the briefest instant. My eyes 
closed. 

“Take care of yourself,” he breathed, cool against my 
skin. 

There was a light, unnatural breeze. My eyes flashed 
open. The leaves on a small vine maple shuddered 
with the gentle wind of his passage. 

He was gone. 

With shaky legs, ignoring the fact that my action was 
useless, I followed him into the forest. The evidence of 
his path had disappeared instantly. There were no 

77 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




footprints, the leaves were still again, but I walked 
forward without thinking. I could not do anything 
else. I had to keep moving. If I stopped looking for 
him, it was over. 

Love, life, meaning... over. 

I walked and walked. Time made no sense as I 
pushed slowly through the thick undergrowth. It was 
hours passing, but also only seconds. Maybe it felt 
like time had frozen because the forest looked the 
same no matter how far I went. I started to worry that 
I was traveling in a circle, a very small circle at that, 
but I kept going. I stumbled often, and, as it grew 
darker and darker, I fell often, too. 

Finally, I tripped over something — it was black now, I 
had no idea what caught my foot — and I stayed down. 

I rolled onto my side, so that I could breathe, and 
curled up on the wet bracken. 

As I lay there, I had a feeling that more time was 
passing than I realized. I couldn’t remember how long 
it had been since nightfall. Was it always so dark here 
at night? Surely, as a rule, some little bit of moonlight 
would filter down through the clouds, through the 
chinks in the canopy of trees, and find the ground. 

Not tonight. Tonight the sky was utterly black. 

Perhaps there was no moon tonight — a lunar eclipse, 
a new moon. 

A new moon. I shivered, though I wasn’t cold. 

It was black for a long time before I heard them 
calling. 

Someone was shouting my name. It was muted, 
muffled by the wet growth that surrounded me, but it 

78 | Page New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was definitely my name. I didn’t recognize the voice. I 
thought about answering, but I was dazed, and it 
took a long time to come to the conclusion that I 
should answer. By then, the calling had stopped. 

Sometime later, the rain woke me up. I don’t think I’d 
really fallen asleep; I was just lost in an unthinking 
stupor, holding with all my strength to the numbness 
that kept me from realizing what I didn’t want to 
know. 

The rain bothered me a little. It was cold. I 
unwrapped my arms from around my legs to cover my 
face. 

It was then that I heard the calling again. It was 
farther away this time, and sometimes it sounded like 
several voices were calling at once. I tried to breathe 
deeply. I remembered that I should answer, but I 
didn’t think they would be able to hear me. Would I 
be able to shout loud enough? 

Suddenly, there was another sound, startlingly close. 
A kind of snuffling, an animal sound. It sounded big. I 
wondered if I should feel afraid. I didn’t — just numb. 

It didn’t matter. The snuffling went away. 

The rain continued, and I could feel the water pooling 
up against my cheek. I was trying to gather the 
strength to turn my head when I saw the light. 

At first it was just a dim glow reflecting off the bushes 
in the distance. It grew brighter and brighter, 
illuminating a large space unlike the focused beam of 
a flashlight. The light broke through the closest 
brush, and I could see that it was a propane lantern, 
but that was all I could see — the brightness blinded 
me for a moment. 



79 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella.” 



The voice was deep and unfamiliar, but full of 
recognition. He wasn’t calling my name to search, he 
was acknowledging that I was found. 

I stared up — impossibly high it seemed — at the dark 
face that I could now see above me. I was vaguely 
aware that the stranger probably only looked so tall 
because my head was still on the ground. 

“Have you been hurt?” 

I knew the words meant something, but I could only 
stare, bewildered. How could the meaning matter at 
this point? 

“Bella, my name is Sam Uley.” 

There was nothing familiar about his name. 

“Charlie sent me to look for you.” 

Charlie? That struck a chord, and I tried to pay more 
attention to what he was saying. Charlie mattered, if 
nothing else did. 

The tall man held out a hand. I gazed at it, not sure 
what I was supposed to do. 

His black eyes appraised me for a second, and then 
he shrugged. In a quick and supple motion, he pulled 
me up from the ground and into his arms. 

I hung there, limp, as he loped swiftly through the 
wet forest. Some part of me knew this should upset 
me — being carried away by a stranger. But there was 
nothing left in me to upset. 



80 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It didn’t seem like too much time passed before there 
were lights and the deep babble of many male voices. 
Sam Uley slowed as he approached the commotion. 

“I’ve got her!” he called in a booming voice. 

The babble ceased, and then picked up again with 
more intensity. A confusing swirl of faces moved over 
me. Sam’s voice was the only one that made sense in 
the chaos, perhaps because my ear was against his 
chest. 

“No, I don’t think she’s hurt,” he told someone. “She 
just keeps saying ‘He’s gone.’” 

Was I saying that out loud? I bit down on my lip. 

“Bella, honey, are you all right?” 

That was one voice I would know anywhere — even 
distorted, as it was now, with worry. 

“Charlie?” My voice sounded strange and small. 

“I’m right here, baby.” 

There was a shifting under me, followed by the 
leathery smell of my dad’s sheriff jacket. Charlie 
staggered under my weight. 

“Maybe I should hold on to her,” Sam Uley suggested. 

“I’ve got her,” Charlie said, a little breathless. 

He walked slowly, struggling. I wished I could tell him 
to put me down and let me walk, but I couldn’t find 
my voice. 



81 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




There were lights everywhere, held by the crowd 
walking with him. It felt like a parade. Or a funeral 
procession. I closed my eyes. 

“We’re almost home now, honey,” Charlie mumbled 
now and then. 

I opened my eyes again when I heard the door unlock. 
We were on the porch of our house, and the tall dark 
man named Sam was holding the door for Charlie, 
one arm extended toward us, as if he was preparing 
to catch me when Charlie’s arms failed. 

But Charlie managed to get me through the door and 
to the couch in the living room. 

“Dad, I’m all wet,” I objected feebly. 

“That doesn’t matter.” His voice was gruff. And then 
he was talking to someone else. “Blankets are in the 
cupboard at the top of the stairs.” 

“Bella?” a new voice asked. I looked at the gray-haired 
man leaning over me, and recognition came after a 
few slow seconds. 

“Dr. Gerandy?” I mumbled. 

“That’s right, dear,” he said. “Are you hurt, Bella?” 

It took me a minute to think that through. I was 
confused by the memory of Sam Uley’s similar 
question in the woods. Only Sam had asked 
something else: Have you been hurt? he’d said. The 
difference seemed significant somehow. 

Dr. Gerandy was waiting. One grizzled eyebrow rose, 
and the wrinkles on his forehead deepened. 



82 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm not hurt,” I lied. The words were true enough for 
what he’d asked. 



His warm hand touched my forehead, and his fingers 
pressed against the inside of my wrist. I watched his 
lips as he counted to himself, his eyes on his watch. 

“What happened to you?” he asked casually. 

I froze under his hand, tasting panic in the back of 
my throat. 

“Did you get lost in the woods?” he prodded. I was 
aware of several other people listening. Three tall men 
with dark faces — from La Push, the Quileute Indian 
reservation down on the coastline, I guessed — Sam 
Uley among them, were standing very close together 
and staring at me. Mr. Newton was there with Mike 
and Mr. Weber, Angela’s father; they all were 
watching me more surreptitiously than the strangers. 
Other deep voices rumbled from the kitchen and 
outside the front door. Half the town must have been 
looking for me. 

Charlie was the closest. He leaned in to hear my 
answer. 

“Yes,” I whispered. “I got lost.” 

The doctor nodded, thoughtful, his fingers probing 
gently against the glands under my jaw. Charlie’s face 
hardened. 

“Do you feel tired?” Dr. Gerandy asked. 

I nodded and closed my eyes obediently. 

“I don’t think there’s anything wrong with her,” I 
heard the doctor mutter to Charlie after a moment. 

83 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Just exhaustion. Let her sleep it off, and I’ll come 
check on her tomorrow,” he paused. He must have 
looked at his watch, because he added, “Well, later 
today actually.” 

There was a creaking sound as they both pushed off 
from the couch to get to their feet. 

“Is it true?” Charlie whispered. Their voices were 
farther away now. I strained to hear. “Did they leave?” 

“Dr. Cullen asked us not to say anything,” Dr. 
Gerandy answered. “The offer was very sudden; they 
had to choose immediately. Carlisle didn’t want to 
make a big production out of leaving.” 

“A little warning might have been nice,” Charlie 
grumbled. 

Dr. Gerandy sounded uncomfortable when he replied. 
“Yes, well, in this situation, some warning might have 
been called for.” 

I didn’t want to listen anymore. I felt around for the 
edge of the quilt someone had laid on top of me, and 
pulled it over my ear. 

I drifted in and out of alertness. I heard Charlie 
whisper thanks to the volunteers as, one by one, they 
left. I felt his fingers on my forehead, and then the 
weight of another blanket. The phone rang a few 
times, and he hurried to catch it before it could wake 
me. He muttered reassurances in a low voice to the 
callers. 

“Yeah, we found her. She’s okay. She got lost. She’s 
fine now,” he said again and again. 



84 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I heard the springs in the armchair groan when he 
settled himself in for the night. 

A few minutes later, the phone rang again. 

Charlie moaned as he struggled to his feet, and then 
he rushed, stumbling, to the kitchen. I pulled my 
head deeper under the blankets, not wanting to listen 
to the same conversation again. 

“Yeah,” Charlie said, and yawned. 

His voice changed, it was much more alert when he 
spoke again. “Where?” There was a pause. “You’re 
sure it’s outside the reservation?” Another short 
pause. “But what could be burning out there?” He 
sounded both worried and mystified. “Look, I’ll call 
down there and check it out.” 

I listened with more interest as he punched in a 
number. 

“Hey, Billy, it’s Charlie — sorry I’m calling so early... no, 
she’s fine. She’s sleeping.... Thanks, but that’s not 
why I called. I just got a call from Mrs. Stanley, and 
she says that from her second-story window she can 
see fires out on the sea cliffs, but I didn’t really.... Oh!” 
Suddenly there was an edge in his voice — 
irritation... or anger. “And why are they doing that? 

Uh huh. Really?” He said it sarcastically. “Well, don’t 
apologize to me. Yeah, yeah. Just make sure the 
flames don’t spread.... I know, I know, I’m surprised 
they got them lit at all in this weather.” 

Charlie hesitated, and then added grudgingly. 

“Thanks for sending Sam and the other boys up. You 
were right — they do know the forest better than we 
do. It was Sam who found her, so I owe you 



85 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




one.... Yeah, I’ll talk to you later,” he agreed, still sour, 
before hanging up. 



Charlie muttered something incoherent as he shuffled 
back to the living room. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. 

He hurried to my side. 

“I’m sorry I woke you, honey.” 

“Is something burning?” 

“It’s nothing,” he assured me. “Just some bonfires out 
on the cliffs.” 

“Bonfires?” I asked. My voice didn’t sound curious. It 
sounded dead. 

Charlie frowned. “Some of the kids from the 
reservation being rowdy,” he explained. 

“Why?” I wondered dully. 

I could tell he didn’t want to answer. He looked at the 
floor under his knees. “They’re celebrating the news.” 
His tone was bitter. 

There was only one piece of news I could think of, try 
as I might not to. And then the pieces snapped 
together. “Because the Cullens left,” I whispered. 

“They don’t like the Cullens in La Push — I’d forgotten 
about that.” 

The Quileutes had their superstitions about the “cold 
ones,” the blood-drinkers that were enemies to their 
tribe, just like they had their legends of the great 
flood and wolf-men ancestors. Just stories, folklore, 

86 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




to most of them. Then there were the few that 
believed. Charlie’s good friend Billy Black believed, 
though even Jacob, his own son, thought he was full 
of stupid superstitions. Billy had warned me to stay 
away from the Cullens.... 

The name stirred something inside me, something 
that began to claw its way toward the surface, 
something I knew I didn’t want to face. 

“It’s ridiculous,” Charlie spluttered. 

We sat in silence for a moment. The sky was no 
longer black outside the window. Somewhere behind 
the rain, the sun was beginning to rise. 

“Bella?” Charlie asked. 

I looked at him uneasily. 

“He left you alone in the woods?” Charlie guessed. 

I deflected his question. “How did you know where to 
find me?” My mind shied away from the inevitable 
awareness that was coming, coming quickly now. 

“Your note,” Charlie answered, surprised. He reached 
into the back pocket of his jeans and pulled out a 
much-abused piece of paper. It was dirty and damp, 
with multiple creases from being opened and refolded 
many times. He unfolded it again, and held it up as 
evidence. The messy handwriting was remarkably 
close to my own. 

Going for a walk with Edward, up the path, it said. 
Back soon, B. 

“When you didn’t come back, I called the Cullens, and 
no one answered,” Charlie said in a low voice. “Then I 

87 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




called the hospital, and Dr. Gerandy told me that 
Carlisle was gone.” 

“Where did they go?” I mumbled. 

He stared at me. “Didn’t Edward tell you?” 

I shook my head, recoiling. The sound of his name 
unleashed the thing that was clawing inside of me — a 
pain that knocked me breathless, astonished me with 
its force. 

Charlie eyed me doubtfully as he answered. “Carlisle 
took a job with a big hospital in Los Angeles. I guess 
they threw a lot of money at him.” 

Sunny L.A. The last place they would really go. I 
remembered my nightmare with the mirror... the 
bright sunlight shimmering off of his skin — 

Agony ripped through me with the memory of his 
face. 

“I want to know if Edward left you alone out there in 
the middle of the woods,” Charlie insisted. 

His name sent another wave of torture through me. I 
shook my head, frantic, desperate to escape the pain. 
“It was my fault. He left me right here on the trail, in 
sight of the house... but I tried to follow him.” 

Charlie started to say something; childishly, I covered 
my ears. “I can’t talk about this anymore, Dad. I want 
to go to my room.” 

Before he could answer, I scrambled up from the 
couch and lurched my way up the stairs. 



88 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Someone had been in the house to leave a note for 
Charlie, a note that would lead him to find me. From 
the minute that I’d realized this, a horrible suspicion 
began to grow in my head. I rushed to my room, 
shutting and locking the door behind me before I ran 
to the CD player by my bed. 

Everything looked exactly the same as I’d left it. I 
pressed down on the top of the CD player. The latch 
unhooked, and the lid slowly swung open. 

It was empty. 

The album Renee had given me sat on the floor beside 
the bed, just where I’d put it last. I lifted the cover 
with a shaking hand. 

I didn’t have to flip any farther than the first page. 

The little metal corners no longer held a picture in 
place. The page was blank except for my own 
handwriting scrawled across the bottom: Edward 
Cullen, Charlie’s kitchen, Sept. 13th. 

I stopped there. I was sure that he would have been 
very thorough. 

It will be as if I’d never existed, he’d promised me. 

I felt the smooth wooden floor beneath my knees, and 
then the palms of my hands, and then it was pressed 
against the skin of my cheek. I hoped that I was 
fainting, but, to my disappointment, I didn’t lose 
consciousness. The waves of pain that had only 
lapped at me before now reared high up and washed 
over my head, pulling me under. 

I did not resurface. 



89 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




OCTOBER 



90 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




NOVEMBER 



91 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




DECEMBER 



92 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




JANUARY 



93 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





Time passes, even when it seems impossible. Even 
when each tick of the second hand aches like the 
pulse of blood behind a bruise. It passes unevenly, in 
strange lurches and dragging lulls, but pass it does. 
Even for me. 

Charlie's fist came down on the table. “THAT’S IT, 
Bella! I’m sending you home.” 

I looked up from my cereal, which I was pondering 
rather than eating, and stared at Charlie in shock. I 
hadn’t been following the conversation — actually, I 
hadn’t been aware that we were having a 
conversation — and I wasn’t sure what he meant. 

“I am home,” I mumbled, confused. 

“I’m sending you to Renee, to Jacksonville,” he 
clarified. 

Charlie watched with exasperation as I slowly grasped 
the meaning of his words. 

“What did I do?” I felt my face crumple. It was so 
unfair. My behavior had been above reproach for the 
past four months. After that first week, which neither 
of us ever mentioned, I hadn’t missed a day of school 
or work. My grades were perfect. I never broke 
curfew — I never went anywhere from which to break 
curfew in the first place. I only very rarely served 
leftovers. 

Charlie was scowling. 



94 | Page 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“You didn’t do anything. That’s the problem. You 
never do anything.” 

“You want me to get into trouble?” I wondered, my 
eyebrows pulling together in mystification. I made an 
effort to pay attention. It wasn’t easy. I was so used to 
tuning everything out, my ears felt stopped up. 

“Trouble would be better than this... this moping 
around all the time!” 

That stung a bit. I’d been careful to avoid all forms of 
moroseness, moping included. 

“I am not moping around.” 

“Wrong word,” he grudgingly conceded. “Moping 
would be better — that would be doing something. 
You’re just... lifeless, Bella. I think that’s the word I 
want.” 

This accusation struck home. I sighed and tried to 
put some animation into my response. 

“I’m sorry, Dad.” My apology sounded a little flat, even 
to me. I’d thought I’d been fooling him. Keeping 
Charlie from suffering was the whole point of all this 
effort. How depressing to think that the effort had 
been wasted. 

“I don’t want you to apologize.” 

I sighed. “Then tell me what you do want me to do.” 

“Bella,” he hesitated, scrutinizing my reaction to his 
next words. “Honey, you’re not the first person to go 
through this kind of thing, you know.” 



95 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I know that.” My accompanying grimace was limp 
and unimpressive. 

“Listen, honey. I think that — that maybe you need 
some help.” 

“Help?” 

He paused, searching for the words again. “When 
your mother left,” he began, frowning, “and took you 
with her.” He inhaled deeply. “Well, that was a really 
bad time for me.” 

“I know, Dad,” I mumbled. 

“But I handled it,” he pointed out. “Honey, you’re not 
handling it. I waited, I hoped it would get better.” He 
stared at me and I looked down quickly. “I think we 
both know it’s not getting better.” 

“I’m fine.” 

He ignored me. “Maybe, well, maybe if you talked to 
someone about it. A professional.” 

“You want me to see a shrink?” My voice was a shade 
sharper as I realized what he was getting at. 

“Maybe it would help.” 

“And maybe it wouldn’t help one little bit.” 

I didn’t know much about psychoanalysis, but I was 
pretty sure that it didn’t work unless the subject was 
relatively honest. Sure, I could tell the truth — if I 
wanted to spend the rest of my life in a padded cell. 

He examined my obstinate expression, and switched 
to another line of attack. 

96 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s beyond me, Bella. Maybe your mother — ” 



“Look,” I said in a flat voice. “I’ll go out tonight, if you 
want. I’ll call Jess or Angela.” 

“That’s not what I want,” he argued, frustrated. “I 
don’t think I can live through seeing you try harder. 
I’ve never seen anyone trying so hard. It hurts to 
watch.” 

I pretended to be dense, looking down at the table. “I 
don’t understand, Dad. First you’re mad because I’m 
not doing anything, and then you say you don’t want 
me to go out.” 

“I want you to be happy — no, not even that much. I 
just want you not to be miserable. I think you’ll have 
a better chance if you get out of Forks.” 

My eyes flashed up with the first small spark of 
feeling I’d had in too long to contemplate. 

“I’m not leaving,” I said. 

“Why not?” he demanded. 

“I’m in my last semester of school — it would screw 
everything up.” 

“You’re a good student — you’ll figure it out.” 

“I don’t want to crowd Mom and Phil.” 

“Your mother’s been dying to have you back.” 

“Florida is too hot.” 

His fist came down on the table again. “We both know 
what’s really going on here, Bella, and it’s not good for 

97 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




you.” He took a deep breath. “It’s been months. No 
calls, no letters, no contact. You can’t keep waiting for 
him.” 

I glowered at him. The heat almost, but not quite, 
reached my face. It had been a long time since I’d 
blushed with any emotion. 

This whole subject was utterly forbidden, as he was 
well aware. 

“I’m not waiting for anything. I don’t expect anything,” 
I said in a low monotone. 

“Bella — ,” Charlie began, his voice thick. 

“I have to get to school,” I interrupted, standing up 
and yanking my untouched breakfast from the table. I 
dumped my bowl in the sink without pausing to wash 
it out. I couldn’t deal with any more conversation. 

“I’ll make plans with Jessica,” I called over my 
shoulder as I strapped on my school bag, not meeting 
his eyes. “Maybe I won’t be home for dinner. We’ll go 
to Port Angeles and watch a movie.” 

I was out the front door before he could react. 

In my haste to get away from Charlie, I ended up 
being one of the first ones to school. The plus side 
was that I got a really good parking spot. The 
downside was that I had free time on my hands, and I 
tried to avoid free time at all costs. 

Quickly, before I could start thinking about Charlie’s 
accusations, I pulled out my Calculus book. I flipped 
it open to the section we should be starting today, 
and tried to make sense of it. Reading math was even 
worse than listening to it, but I was getting better at 
98 | Page New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




it. In the last several months, I’d spent ten times the 
amount of time on Calculus than I’d ever spent on 
math before. As a result, I was managing to keep in 
the range of a low A. I knew Mr. Varner felt my 
improvement was all due to his superior teaching 
methods. And if that made him happy, I wasn’t going 
to burst his bubble. 

I forced myself to keep at it until the parking lot was 
full, and I ended up rushing to English. We were 
working on Animal Farm, an easy subject matter. I 
didn’t mind communism; it was a welcome change 
from the exhausting romances that made up most of 
the curriculum. I settled into my seat, pleased by the 
distraction of Mr. Berty’s lecture. 

Time moved easily while I was in school. The bell rang 
all too soon. I started repacking my bag. 

“Bella?” 

I recognized Mike’s voice, and I knew what his next 
words would be before he said them. 

“Are you working tomorrow?” 

I looked up. He was leaning across the aisle with an 
anxious expression. Every Friday he asked me the 
same question. Never mind that I hadn’t taken so 
much as a sick day. Well, with one exception, months 
ago. But he had no reason to look at me with such 
concern. I was a model employee. 

“Tomorrow is Saturday, isn’t it?” I said. Having just 
had it pointed out to me by Charlie, I realized how 
lifeless my voice really sounded. 



99 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, it is,” he agreed. “See you in Spanish.” He 
waved once before turning his back. He didn’t bother 
walking me to class anymore. 

I trudged off to Calculus with a grim expression. This 
was the class where I sat next to Jessica. 

It had been weeks, maybe months, since Jess had 
even greeted me when I passed her in the hall. I knew 
I had offended her with my antisocial behavior, and 
she was sulking. It wasn’t going to be easy to talk to 
her now — especially to ask her to do me a favor. I 
weighed my options carefully as I loitered outside the 
classroom, procrastinating. 

I wasn’t about to face Charlie again without some 
kind of social interaction to report. I knew I couldn’t 
lie, though the thought of driving to Port Angeles and 
back alone — being sure my odometer reflected the 
correct mileage, just in case he checked — was very 
tempting. Jessica’s mom was the biggest gossip in 
town, and Charlie was bound to run into Mrs. Stanley 
sooner rather than later. When he did, he would no 
doubt mention the trip. Lying was out. 

With a sigh, I shoved the door open. 

Mr. Varner gave me a dark look — he’d already started 
the lecture. I hurried to my seat. Jessica didn’t look 
up as I sat next to her. I was glad that I had fifty 
minutes to mentally prepare myself. 

This class flew by even faster than English. A small 
part of that speed was due to my goody-goody 
preparation this morning in the truck — but mostly it 
stemmed from the fact that time always sped up 
when I was looking forward to something unpleasant. 



100 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I grimaced when Mr. Varner dismissed the class five 
minutes early. He smiled like he was being nice. 

“Jess?” My nose wrinkled as I cringed, waiting for her 
to turn on me. 

She twisted in her seat to face me, eyeing me 
incredulously. “Are you talking to me, Bella?” 

“Of course.” I widened my eyes to suggest innocence. 

“What? Do you need help with Calculus?” Her tone 
was a tad sour. 

“No.” I shook my head. “Actually, I wanted to know if 
you would... go to the movies with me tonight? I really 
need a girls’ night out.” The words sounded stiff, like 
badly delivered lines, and she looked suspicious. 

“Why are you asking me?” she asked, still unfriendly. 

“You’re the first person I think of when I want girl 
time.” I smiled, and I hoped the smile looked genuine. 
It was probably true. She was at least the first person 
I thought of when I wanted to avoid Charlie. It 
amounted to the same thing. 

She seemed a little mollified. “Well, I don’t know.” 

“Do you have plans?” 

“No... I guess I can go with you. What do you want to 
see?” 

“I’m not sure what’s playing,” I hedged. This was the 
tricky part. I racked my brain for a clue — hadn’t I 
heard someone talk about a movie recently? Seen a 
poster? “How about that one with the female 
president?” 

101 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




She looked at me oddly. “Bella, that one’s been out of 
the theater forever.” 

“Oh.” I frowned. “Is there anything you’d like to see?” 

Jessica’s natural bubbliness started to leak out in 
spite of herself as she thought out loud. “Well, there’s 
that new romantic comedy that’s getting great 
reviews. I want to see that one. And my dad just saw 
Dead End and he really liked it.” 

I grasped at the promising title. “What’s that one 
about?” 

“Zombies or something. He said it was the scariest 
thing he’d seen in years.” 

“That sounds perfect.” I’d rather deal with real 
zombies than watch a romance. 

“Okay.” She seemed surprised by my response. I tried 
to remember if I liked scary movies, but I wasn’t sure. 
“Do you want me to pick you up after school?” she 
offered. 

“Sure.” 

Jessica smiled at me with tentative friendliness before 
she left. My answering smile was just a little late, but 
I thought that she saw it. 

The rest of the day passed quickly, my thoughts 
focused on planning for tonight. I knew from 
experience that once I got Jessica talking, I would be 
able to get away with a few mumbled responses at the 
appropriate moments. Only minimal interaction 
would be required. 



102 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The thick haze that blurred my days now was 
sometimes confusing. I was surprised when I found 
myself in my room, not clearly remembering the drive 
home from school or even opening the front door. But 
that didn’t matter. Losing track of time was the most I 
asked from life. 

I didn’t fight the haze as I turned to my closet. The 
numbness was more essential in some places than in 
others. I barely registered what I was looking at as I 
slid the door aside to reveal the pile of rubbish on the 
left side of my closet, under the clothes I never wore. 

My eyes did not stray toward the black garbage bag 
that held my present from that last birthday, did not 
see the shape of the stereo where it strained against 
the black plastic; I didn’t think of the bloody mess my 
nails had been when I’d finished clawing it out of the 
dashboard. 

I yanked the old purse I rarely used off the nail it 
hung from, and shoved the door shut. 

Just then I heard a horn honking. I swiftly traded my 
wallet from my schoolbag into the purse. I was in a 
hurry, as if rushing would somehow make the night 
pass more quickly. 

I glanced at myself in the hall mirror before I opened 
the door, arranging my features carefully into a smile 
and trying to hold them there. 

“Thanks for coming with me tonight,” I told Jess as I 
climbed into the passenger seat, trying to infuse my 
tone with gratitude. It had been a while since I’d 
really thought about what I was saying to anyone 
besides Charlie. Jess was harder. I wasn’t sure which 
were the right emotions to fake. 



103 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sure. So, what brought this on?” Jess wondered as 
she drove down my street. 

“Brought what on?” 

“Why did you suddenly decide... to go out?” It sounded 
like she changed her question halfway through. 

I shrugged. “Just needed a change.” 

I recognized the song on the radio then, and quickly 
reached for the dial. “Do you mind?” I asked. 

“No, go ahead.” 

I scanned through the stations until I found one that 
was harmless. I peeked at Jess’s expression as the 
new music filled the car. 

Her eyes squinted. “Since when do you listen to rap?” 
“I don’t know,” I said. “A while.” 

“You like this?” she asked doubtfully. 

“Sure.” 

It would be much too hard to interact with Jessica 
normally if I had to work to tune out the music, too. I 
nodded my head, hoping I was in time with the beat. 

“Okay....” She stared out the windshield with wide 
eyes. 

“So what’s up with you and Mike these days?” I asked 
quickly. 

“You see him more than I do.” 



104 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The question hadn’t started her talking like I’d hoped 
it would. 

“It’s hard to talk at work,” I mumbled, and then I tried 
again. “Have you been out with anyone lately?” 

“Not really. I go out with Conner sometimes. I went 
out with Eric two weeks ago.” She rolled her eyes, and 
I sensed a long story. I clutched at the opportunity. 

“Eric Yorkie? Who asked who?” 

She groaned, getting more animated. “He did, of 
course! I couldn’t think of a nice way to say no.” 

“Where did he take you?” I demanded, knowing she 
would interpret my eagerness as interest. “Tell me all 
about it.” 

She launched into her tale, and I settled into my seat, 
more comfortable now. I paid strict attention, 
murmuring in sympathy and gasping in horror as 
called for. When she was finished with her Eric story, 
she continued into a Conner comparison without any 
prodding. 

The movie was playing early, so Jess thought we 
should hit the twilight showing and eat later. I was 
happy to go along with whatever she wanted; after all, 
I was getting what I wanted — Charlie off my back. 

I kept Jess talking through the previews, so I could 
ignore them more easily. But I got nervous when the 
movie started. A young couple was walking along a 
beach, swinging hands and discussing their mutual 
affection with gooey falseness. I resisted the urge to 
cover my ears and start humming. I had not 
bargained for a romance. 



105 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I thought we picked the zombie movie,” I hissed to 
Jessica. 

“This is the zombie movie.” 

“Then why isn’t anyone getting eaten?” I asked 
desperately. 

She looked at me with wide eyes that were almost 
alarmed. “I’m sure that part’s coming,” she 
whispered. 

“I’m getting popcorn. Do you want any?” 

“No, thanks.” 

Someone shushed us from behind. 

I took my time at the concession counter, watching 
the clock and debating what percentage of a ninety- 
minute movie could be spent on romantic exposition. 

I decided ten minutes was more than enough, but I 
paused just inside the theater doors to be sure. I 
could hear horrified screams blaring from the 
speakers, so I knew I’d waited long enough. 

“You missed everything,” Jess murmured when I slid 
back into my seat. “Almost everyone is a zombie now.” 

“Long line.” I offered her some popcorn. She took a 
handful. 

The rest of the movie was comprised of gruesome 
zombie attacks and endless screaming from the 
handful of people left alive, their numbers dwindling 
quickly. I would have thought there was nothing in 
that to disturb me. But I felt uneasy, and I wasn’t 
sure why at first. 



106 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It wasn’t until almost the very end, as I watched a 
haggard zombie shambling after the last shrieking 
survivor, that I realized what the problem was. The 
scene kept cutting between the horrified face of the 
heroine, and the dead, emotionless face of her 
pursuer, back and forth as it closed the distance. 

And I realized which one resembled me the most. 

I stood up. 

“Where are you going? There’s, like, two minutes left,” 
Jess hissed. 

“I need a drink,” I muttered as I raced for the exit. 

I sat down on the bench outside the theater door and 
tried very hard not to think of the irony. But it was 
ironic, all things considered, that, in the end, I would 
wind up as a zombie. I hadn’t seen that one coming. 

Not that I hadn’t dreamed of becoming a mythical 
monster once — just never a grotesque, animated 
corpse. I shook my head to dislodge that train of 
thought, feeling panicky. I couldn’t afford to think 
about what I’d once dreamed of. 

It was depressing to realize that I wasn’t the heroine 
anymore, that my story was over. 

Jessica came out of the theater doors and hesitated, 
probably wondering where the best place was to 
search for me. When she saw me, she looked relieved, 
but only for a moment. Then she looked irritated. 

“Was the movie too scary for you?” she wondered. 

“Yeah,” I agreed. “I guess I’m just a coward.” 



107 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s funny.” She frowned. “I didn’t think you were 
scared — I was screaming all the time, but I didn’t hear 
you scream once. So I didn’t know why you left.” 

I shrugged. “Just scared.” 

She relaxed a little. “That was the scariest movie I 
think I’ve ever seen. I’ll bet we’re going to have 
nightmares tonight.” 

“No doubt about that,” I said, trying to keep my voice 
normal. It was inevitable that I would have 
nightmares, but they wouldn’t be about zombies. Her 
eyes flashed to my face and away. Maybe I hadn’t 
succeeded with the normal voice. 

“Where do you want to eat?” Jess asked. 

“I don’t care.” 

“Okay.” 

Jess started talking about the male lead in the movie 
as we walked. I nodded as she gushed over his 
hotness, unable to remember seeing a non-zombie 
man at all. 

I didn’t watch where Jessica was leading me. I was 
only vaguely aware that it was dark and quieter now. 

It took me longer than it should have to realize why it 
was quiet. Jessica had stopped babbling. I looked at 
her apologetically, hoping I hadn’t hurt her feelings. 

Jessica wasn’t looking at me. Her face was tense; she 
stared straight ahead and walked fast. As I watched, 
her eyes darted quickly to the right, across the road, 
and back again. 



I glanced around myself for the first time. 

108 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




We were on a short stretch of unlit sidewalk. The little 
shops lining the street were all locked up for the 
night, windows black. Half a block ahead, the 
streetlights started up again, and I could see, farther 
down, the bright golden arches of the McDonald’s she 
was heading for. 

Across the street there was one open business. The 
windows were covered from inside and there were 
neon signs, advertisements for different brands of 
beer, glowing in front of them. The biggest sign, in 
brilliant green, was the name of the bar — One-Eyed 
Pete’s. I wondered if there was some pirate theme not 
visible from outside. The metal door was propped 
open; it was dimly lit inside, and the low murmur of 
many voices and the sound of ice clinking in glasses 
floated across the street. Lounging against the wall 
beside the door were four men. 

I glanced back at Jessica. Her eyes were fixed on the 
path ahead and she moved briskly. She didn’t look 
frightened — just wary, trying to not attract attention 
to herself. 

I paused without thinking, looking back at the four 
men with a strong sense of deja vu. This was a 
different road, a different night, but the scene was so 
much the same. One of them was even short and 
dark. As I stopped and turned toward them, that one 
looked up in interest. 

I stared back at him, frozen on the sidewalk. 

“Bella?” Jess whispered. “What are you doing?” 

I shook my head, not sure myself. “I think I know 
them...,” I muttered. 



109 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




What was I doing? I should be running from this 
memory as fast as I could, blocking the image of the 
four lounging men from my mind, protecting myself 
with the numbness I couldn’t function without. Why 
was I stepping, dazed, into the street? 

It seemed too coincidental that I should be in Port 
Angeles with Jessica, on a dark street even. My eyes 
focused on the short one, trying to match the features 
to my memory of the man who had threatened me 
that night almost a year ago. I wondered if there was 
any way I would recognize the man, if it was really 
him. That particular part of that particular evening 
was just a blur. My body remembered it better than 
my mind did; the tension in my legs as I tried to 
decide whether to run or to stand my ground, the 
dryness in my throat as I struggled to build a decent 
scream, the tight stretch of skin across my knuckles 
as I clenched my hands into fists, the chills on the 
back of my neck when the dark-haired man called me 
“sugar.”... 

There was an indefinite, implied kind of menace to 
these men that had nothing to do with that other 
night. It sprung from the fact that they were 
strangers, and it was dark here, and they 
outnumbered us — nothing more specific than that. 
But it was enough that Jessica’s voice cracked in 
panic as she called after me. 

“Bella, come on!” 

I ignored her, walking slowly forward without ever 
making the conscious decision to move my feet. I 
didn’t understand why, but the nebulous threat the 
men presented drew me toward them. It was a 
senseless impulse, but I hadn’t felt any kind of 
impulse in so long.... I followed it. 



110 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Something unfamiliar beat through my veins. 
Adrenaline, I realized, long absent from my system, 
drumming my pulse faster and fighting against the 
lack of sensation. It was strange — why the adrenaline 
when there was no fear? It was almost as if it were an 
echo of the last time I’d stood like this, on a dark 
street in Port Angeles with strangers. 

I saw no reason for fear. I couldn’t imagine anything 
in the world that there was left to be afraid of, not 
physically at least. One of the few advantages of 
losing everything. 

I was halfway across the street when Jess caught up 
to me and grabbed my arm. 

“Bella! You can’t go in a bar!” she hissed. 

“I’m not going in,” I said absently, shaking her hand 
off. “I just want to see something....” 

“Are you crazy?” she whispered. “Are you suicidal?” 

That question caught my attention, and my eyes 
focused on her. 

“No, I’m not.” My voice sounded defensive, but it was 
true. I wasn’t suicidal. Even in the beginning, when 
death unquestionably would have been a relief, I 
didn’t consider it. I owed too much to Charlie. I felt 
too responsible for Renee. I had to think of them. 

And I’d made a promise not to do anything stupid or 
reckless. For all those reasons, I was still breathing. 

Remembering that promise, I felt a twinge of guilt, but 
what I was doing right now didn’t really count. It 
wasn’t like I was taking a blade to my wrists. 



Ill | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jess’s eyes were round, her mouth hung open. Her 
question about suicide had been rhetorical, I realized 
too late. 

“Go eat,” I encouraged her, waving toward the fast 
food. I didn’t like the way she looked at me. “I’ll catch 
up in a minute.” 

I turned away from her, back to the men who were 
watching us with amused, curious eyes. 

“Bella, stop this right now!” 

My muscles locked into place, froze me where I stood. 
Because it wasn’t Jessica’s voice that rebuked me 
now. It was a furious voice, a familiar voice, a 
beautiful voice — soft like velvet even though it was 
irate. 

It was his voice — I was exceptionally careful not to 
think his name — and I was surprised that the sound 
of it did not knock me to my knees, did not curl me 
onto the pavement in a torture of loss. But there was 
no pain, none at all. 

In the instant that I heard his voice, everything was 
very clear. Like my head had suddenly surfaced out of 
some dark pool. I was more aware of everything — 
sight, sound, the feel of the cold air that I hadn’t 
noticed was blowing sharply against my face, the 
smells coming from the open bar door. 

I looked around myself in shock. 

“Go back to Jessica,” the lovely voice ordered, still 
angry. “You promised — nothing stupid.” 

I was alone. Jessica stood a few feet from me, staring 
at me with frightened eyes. Against the wall, the 

112 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




strangers watched, confused, wondering what I was 
doing, standing there motionless in the middle of the 
street. 

I shook my head, trying to understand. I knew he 
wasn’t there, and yet, he felt improbably close, close 
for the first time since... since the end. The anger in 
his voice was concern, the same anger that was once 
very familiar — something I hadn’t heard in what felt 
like a lifetime. 

“Keep your promise.” The voice was slipping away, as 
if the volume was being turned down on a radio. 

I began to suspect that I was having some kind of 
hallucination. Triggered, no doubt, by the memory — 
the deja vu, the strange familiarity of the situation. 

I ran through the possibilities quickly in my head. 

Option one: I was crazy. That was the layman’s term 
for people who heard voices in their heads. 

Possible. 

Option two: My subconscious mind was giving me 
what it thought I wanted. This was wish fulfillment — a 
momentary relief from pain by embracing the 
incorrect idea that he cared whether I lived or died. 
Projecting what he would have said if A) he were here, 
and B) he would be in any way bothered by something 
bad happening to me. 

Probable. 

I could see no option three, so I hoped it was the 
second option and this was just my subconscious 
running amuck, rather than something I would need 
to be hospitalized for. 

113 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My reaction was hardly sane, though — I was grateful. 
The sound of his voice was something that I’d feared I 
was losing, and so, more than anything else, I felt 
overwhelming gratitude that my unconscious mind 
had held onto that sound better than my conscious 
one had. 

I was not allowed to think of him. That was something 
I tried to be very strict about. Of course I slipped; I 
was only human. But I was getting better, and so the 
pain was something I could avoid for days at a time 
now. The trade-off was the never-ending numbness. 
Between pain and nothing, I’d chosen nothing. 

I waited for the pain now. I was not numb — my senses 
felt unusually intense after so many months of the 
haze — but the normal pain held off. The only ache 
was the disappointment that his voice was fading. 

There was a second of choice. 

The wise thing would be to run away from this 
potentially destructive — and certainly mentally 
unstable — development. It would be stupid to 
encourage hallucinations. 

But his voice was fading. 

I took another step forward, testing. 

“Bella, turn around,” he growled. 

I sighed in relief. The anger was what I wanted to 
hear — false, fabricated evidence that he cared, a 
dubious gift from my subconscious. 

Very few seconds had passed while I sorted this all 
out. My little audience watched, curious. It probably 
looked like I was just dithering over whether or not I 

114 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was going to approach them. How could they guess 
that I was standing there enjoying an unexpected 
moment of insanity? 

“Hi,” one of the men called, his tone both confident 
and a bit sarcastic. He was fair-skinned and fair- 
haired, and he stood with the assurance of someone 
who thought of himself as quite good-looking. I 
couldn’t tell whether he was or not. I was prejudiced. 

The voice in my head answered with an exquisite 
snarl. I smiled, and the confident man seemed to take 
that as encouragement. 

“Can I help you with something? You look lost.” He 
grinned and winked. 

I stepped carefully over the gutter, running with water 
that was black in the darkness. 

“No. I’m not lost.” 

Now that I was closer — and my eyes felt oddly in 
focus — I analyzed the short, dark man’s face. It was 
not familiar in any way. I suffered a curious sensation 
of disappointment that this was not the terrible man 
who had tried to hurt me almost a year ago. 

The voice in my head was quiet now. 

The short man noticed my stare. “Can I buy you a 
drink?” he offered, nervous, seeming flattered that I’d 
singled him out to stare at. 

“I’m too young,” I answered automatically. 

He was baffled — wondering why I had approached 
them. I felt compelled to explain. 



115 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“From across the street, you looked like someone I 
knew. Sorry, my mistake.” 

The threat that had pulled me across the street had 
evaporated. These were not the dangerous men I 
remembered. They were probably nice guys. Safe. I 
lost interest. 

“That’s okay,” the confident blonde said. “Stay and 
hang out with us.” 

“Thanks, but I can’t.” Jessica was hesitating in the 
middle of the street, her eyes wide with outrage and 
betrayal. 

“Oh, just a few minutes.” 

I shook my head, and turned to rejoin Jessica. 

“Let’s go eat,” I suggested, barely glancing at her. 
Though I appeared to be, for the moment, freed of the 
zombie abstraction, I was just as distant. My mind 
was preoccupied. The safe, numb deadness did not 
come back, and I got more anxious with every minute 
that passed without its return. 

“What were you thinking?” Jessica snapped. “You 
don’t know them — they could have been 
psychopaths!” 

I shrugged, wishing she would let it go. “I just thought 
I knew the one guy.” 

“You are so odd, Bella Swan. I feel like I don’t know 
who you are.” 

“Sorry.” I didn’t know what else to say to that. 



116 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




We walked to McDonald’s in silence. I’d bet that she 
was wishing we’d taken her car instead of walking the 
short distance from the theater, so that she could use 
the drive-through. She was just as anxious now for 
this evening to be over as I had been from the 
beginning. 

I tried to start a conversation a few times while we 
ate, but Jessica was not cooperative. I must have 
really offended her. 

When we go back in the car, she tuned the stereo 
back to her favorite station and turned the volume too 
loud to allow easy conversation. 

I didn’t have to struggle as hard as usual to ignore 
the music. Even though my mind, for once, was not 
carefully numb and empty, I had too much to think 
about to hear the lyrics. 

I waited for the numbness to return, or the pain. 
Because the pain must be coming. I’d broken my 
personal rules. Instead of shying away from the 
memories, I’d walked forward and greeted them. I’d 
heard his voice, so clearly, in my head. That was 
going to cost me, I was sure of it. Especially if I 
couldn’t reclaim the haze to protect myself. I felt too 
alert, and that frightened me. 

But relief was still the strongest emotion in my body — 
relief that came from the very core of my being. 

As much as I struggled not to think of him, I did not 
struggle to forget. I worried — late in the night, when 
the exhaustion of sleep deprivation broke down my 
defenses — that it was all slipping away. That my mind 
was a sieve, and I would someday not be able to 
remember the precise color of his eyes, the feel of his 



117 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




cool skin, or the texture of his voice. I could not think 
of them, but I must remember them. 

Because there was just one thing that I had to believe 
to be able to live — I had to know that he existed. That 
was all. Everything else I could endure. So long as he 
existed. 

That’s why I was more trapped in Forks than I ever 
had been before, why I’d fought with Charlie when he 
suggested a change. Honestly, it shouldn’t matter; no 
one was ever coming back here. 

But if I were to go to Jacksonville, or anywhere else 
bright and unfamiliar, how could I be sure he was 
real? In a place where I could never imagine him, the 
conviction might fade... and that I could not live 
through. 

Forbidden to remember, terrified to forget; it was a 
hard line to walk. 

I was surprised when Jessica stopped the car in front 
of my house. The ride had not taken long, but, short 
as it seemed, I wouldn’t have thought that Jessica 
could go that long without speaking. 

“Thanks for going out with me, Jess,” I said as I 
opened my door. “That was. . .fun.” I hoped that fun 
was the appropriate word. 

“Sure,” she muttered. 

“I’m sorry about... after the movie.” 

“Whatever, Bella.” She glared out the windshield 
instead of looking at me. She seemed to be growing 
angrier rather than getting over it. 



118 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“See you Monday?” 



“Yeah. Bye.” 

I gave up and shut the door. She drove away, still 
without looking at me. 

I’d forgotten her by the time I was inside. 

Charlie was waiting for me in the middle of the hall, 
his arms folded tight over his chest with his hands 
balled into fists. 

“Hey, Dad,” I said absentmindedly as I ducked around 
Charlie, heading for the stairs. I’d been thinking 
about him for too long, and I wanted to be upstairs 
before it caught up with me. 

“Where have you been?” Charlie demanded. 

I looked at my dad, surprised. “I went to a movie in 
Port Angeles with Jessica. Like I told you this 
morning.” 

“Humph,” he grunted. 

“Is that okay?” 

He studied my face, his eyes widening as if he saw 
something unexpected. “Yeah, that’s fine. Did you 
have fun?” 

“Sure,” I said. “We watched zombies eat people. It was 
great.” 

His eyes narrowed. 

“’Night, Dad.” 

119 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He let me pass. I hurried to my room. 

I lay in my bed a few minutes later, resigned as the 
pain finally made its appearance. 

It was a crippling thing, this sensation that a huge 
hole had been punched through my chest, excising 
my most vital organs and leaving ragged, unhealed 
gashes around the edges that continued to throb and 
bleed despite the passage of time. Rationally, I knew 
my lungs must still be intact, yet I gasped for air and 
my head spun like my efforts yielded me nothing. My 
heart must have been beating, too, but I couldn’t hear 
the sound of my pulse in my ears; my hands felt blue 
with cold. I curled inward, hugging my ribs to hold 
myself together. I scrambled for my numbness, my 
denial, but it evaded me. 

And yet, I found I could survive. I was alert, I felt the 
pain — the aching loss that radiated out from my 
chest, sending wracking waves of hurt through my 
limbs and head — but it was manageable. I could live 
through it. It didn’t feel like the pain had weakened 
over time, rather that I’d grown strong enough to bear 
it. 

Whatever it was that had happened tonight — and 
whether it was the zombies, the adrenaline, or the 
hallucinations that were responsible — it had woken 
me up. 

For the first time in a long time, I didn’t know what to 
expect in the morning. 



120 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




CHEATER 



“Bella, why don't you take off,” Mike suggested, his 
eyes focused off to the side, not really looking at me. I 
wondered how long that had been going on without 
me noticing. 

It was a slow afternoon at Newton’s. At the moment 
there were only two patrons in the store, dedicated 
backpackers from the sound of their conversation. 
Mike had spent the last hour going through the pros 
and cons of two brands of lightweight packs with 
them. But they’d taken a break from serious pricing 
to indulge in trying to one-up each other with their 
latest tales from the trail. Their distraction had given 
Mike a chance to escape. 

“I don’t mind staying,” I said. I still hadn’t been able 
to sink back into my protective shell of numbness, 
and everything seemed oddly close and loud today, 
like I’d taken cotton out of my ears. I tried to tune out 
the laughing hikers without success. 

“I’m telling you,” said the thickset man with the 
orange beard that didn’t match his dark brown hair. 
“I’ve seen grizzlies pretty close up in Yellowstone, but 
they had nothing on this brute.” His hair was matted, 
and his clothes looked like they’d been on his back for 
more than a few days. Fresh from the mountains. 

“Not a chance. Black bears don’t get that big. The 
grizzlies you saw were probably cubs.” The second 
man was tall and lean, his face tanned and wind- 
whipped into an impressive leathery crust. 



121 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Seriously, Bella, as soon as these two give up, I’m 
closing the place down,” Mike murmured. 

“If you want me to go. . .” I shrugged. 

“On all fours it was taller than you,” the bearded man 
insisted while I gathered my things together. “Big as a 
house and pitch-black. I’m going to report it to the 
ranger here. People ought to be warned — this wasn’t 
up on the mountain, mind you — this was only a few 
miles from the trailhead.” 

Leather-face laughed and rolled his eyes. “Let me 
guess — you were on your way in? Hadn’t eaten real 
food or slept off the ground in a week, right?” 

“Hey, uh, Mike, right?” the bearded man called, 
looking toward us. 

“See you Monday,” I mumbled. 

“Yes, sir,” Mike replied, turning away. 

“Say, have there been any warnings around here 
recently — about black bears?” 

“No, sir. But it’s always good to keep your distance 
and store your food correctly. Have you seen the new 
bear-safe canisters? They only weigh two pounds . . .” 

The doors slid open to let me out into the rain. I 
hunched over inside my jacket as I dashed for my 
truck. The rain hammering against my hood sounded 
unusually loud, too, but soon the roar of the engine 
drowned out everything else. 

I didn’t want to go back to Charlie’s empty house. 

Last night had been particularly brutal, and I had no 
desire to revisit the scene of the suffering. Even after 

122 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the pain had subsided enough for me to sleep, it 
wasn’t over. Like I’d told Jessica after the movie, there 
was never any doubt that I would have nightmares. 

I always had nightmares now, every night. Not 
nightmares really, not in the plural, because it was 
always the same nightmare. You’d think I’d get bored 
after so many months, grow immune to it. But the 
dream never failed to horrify me, and only ended 
when I woke myself with screaming. Charlie didn’t 
come in to see what was wrong anymore, to make 
sure there was no intruder strangling me or 
something like that — he was used to it now. 

My nightmare probably wouldn’t even frighten 
someone else. Nothing jumped out and screamed, 
“Boo!” There were no zombies, no ghosts, no 
psychopaths. There was nothing, really. Only nothing. 
Just the endless maze of moss-covered trees, so quiet 
that the silence was an uncomfortable pressure 
against my eardrums. It was dark, like dusk on a 
cloudy day, with only enough light to see that there 
was nothing to see. I hurried through the gloom 
without a path, always searching, searching, 
searching, getting more frantic as the time stretched 
on, trying to move faster, though the speed made me 
clumsy.... Then there would come the point in my 
dream — and I could feel it coming now, but could 
never seem to wake myself up before it hit — when I 
couldn’t remember what it was that I was searching 
for. When I realized that there was nothing to search 
for, and nothing to find. That there never had been 
anything more than just this empty, dreary wood, and 
there never would be anything more for me... nothing 
but nothing.... 

That was usually about when the screaming started. 



123 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I wasn’t paying attention to where I was driving — just 
wandering through empty, wet side roads as I avoided 
the ways that would take me home — because I didn’t 
have anywhere to go. 

I wished I could feel numb again, but I couldn’t 
remember how I’d managed it before. The nightmare 
was nagging at my mind and making me think about 
things that would cause me pain. I didn’t want to 
remember the forest. Even as I shuddered away from 
the images, I felt my eyes fill with tears and the 
aching begin around the edges of the hole in my 
chest. I took one hand from the steering wheel and 
wrapped it around my torso to hold it in one piece. 

It will be as if I’d never existed. The words ran 
through my head, lacking the perfect clarity of my 
hallucination last night. They were just words, 
soundless, like print on a page. Just words, but they 
ripped the hole wide open, and I stomped on the 
brake, knowing I should not drive while this 
incapacitated. 

I curled over, pressing my face against the steering 
wheel and trying to breathe without lungs. 

I wondered how long this could last. Maybe someday, 
years from now — if the pain would just decrease to 
the point where I could bear it — I would be able to 
look back on those few short months that would 
always be the best of my life. And, if it were possible 
that the pain would ever soften enough to allow me to 
do that, I was sure that I would feel grateful for as 
much time as he’d given me. More than I’d asked for, 
more than I’d deserved. Maybe someday I’d be able to 
see it that way. 



124 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




But what if this hole never got any better? If the raw 
edges never healed? If the damage was permanent 
and irreversible? 

I held myself tightly together. As if he’d never existed, 

I thought in despair. What a stupid and impossible 
promise to make! He could steal my pictures and 
reclaim his gifts, but that didn’t put things back the 
way they’d been before I’d met him. The physical 
evidence was the most insignificant part of the 
equation. I was changed, my insides altered almost 
past the point of recognition. Even my outsides looked 
different — my face sallow, white except for the purple 
circles the nightmares had left under my eyes. My 
eyes were dark enough against my pallid skin that — if 
I were beautiful, and seen from a distance — I might 
even pass for a vampire now. But I was not beautiful, 
and I probably looked closer to a zombie. 

As if he’d never existed? That was insanity. It was a 
promise that he could never keep, a promise that was 
broken as soon as he’d made it. 

I thumped my head against the steering wheel, trying 
to distract myself from the sharper pain. 

It made me feel silly for ever worrying about keeping 
my promise. Where was the logic in sticking to an 
agreement that had already been violated by the other 
party? Who cared if I was reckless and stupid? There 
was no reason to avoid recklessness, no reason why I 
shouldn’t get to be stupid. 

I laughed humorlessly to myself, still gasping for air. 
Reckless in Forks — now there was a hopeless 
proposition. 

The dark humor distracted me, and the distraction 
eased the pain. My breath came easier, and I was able 

125 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




to lean back against the seat. Though it was cold 
today, my forehead was damp with sweat. 

I concentrated on my hopeless proposition to keep 
from sliding back into the excruciating memories. To 
be reckless in Forks would take a lot of creativity — 
maybe more than I had. But I wished I could find 
some way.... I might feel better if I weren’t holding fast, 
all alone, to a broken pact. If I were an oath-breaker, 
too. But how could I cheat on my side of the deal, 
here in this harmless little town? Of course, Forks 
hadn’t always been so harmless, but now it was 
exactly what it had always appeared to be. It was dull, 
it was safe. 

I stared out the windshield for a long moment, my 
thoughts moving sluggishly — I couldn’t seem to make 
those thoughts go anywhere. I cut the engine, which 
was groaning in a pitiful way after idling for so long, 
and stepped out into the drizzle. 

The cold rain dripped through my hair and then 
trickled across my cheeks like freshwater tears. It 
helped to clear my head. I blinked the water from my 
eyes, staring blankly across the road. 

After a minute of staring, I recognized where I was. I’d 
parked in the middle of the north lane of Russell 
Avenue. I was standing in front of the Cheneys’ 
house — my truck was blocking their driveway — and 
across the road lived the Markses. I knew I needed to 
move my truck, and that I ought to go home. It was 
wrong to wander the way I had, distracted and 
impaired, a menace on the roads of Forks. Besides, 
someone would notice me soon enough, and report 
me to Charlie. 

As I took a deep breath in preparation to move, a sign 
in the Markses’ yard caught my eye — it was just a big 

126 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




piece of cardboard leaning against their mailbox post, 
with black letters scrawled in caps across it. 

Sometimes, kismet happens. 

Coincidence? Or was it meant to be? I didn’t know, 
but it seemed kind of silly to think that it was 
somehow fated, that the dilapidated motorcycles 
rusting in the Markses’ front yard beside the hand- 
printed FOR SALE, AS IS sign were serving some 
higher purpose by existing there, right where I needed 
them to be. 

So maybe it wasn’t kismet. Maybe there were just all 
kinds of ways to be reckless, and I only now had my 
eyes open to them. 

Reckless and stupid. Those were Charlie’s two very 
favorite words to apply to motorcycles. 

Charlie’s job didn’t get a lot of action compared to 
cops in bigger towns, but he did get called in on 
traffic accidents. With the long, wet stretches of 
freeway twisting and turning through the forest, blind 
corner after blind corner, there was no shortage of 
that kind of action. But even with all the huge log- 
haulers barreling around the turns, mostly people 
walked away. The exceptions to that rule were often 
on motorcycles, and Charlie had seen one too many 
victims, almost always kids, smeared on the highway. 
He’d made me promise before I was ten that I would 
never accept a ride on a motorcycle. Even at that age, 

I didn’t have to think twice before promising. Who 
would want to ride a motorcycle here? It would be like 
taking a sixty-mile-per-hour bath. 

So many promises I kept... 



127 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It clicked together for me then. I wanted to be stupid 
and reckless, and I wanted to break promises. Why 
stop at one? 

That’s as far as I thought it through. I sloshed 
through the rain to the Markses’ front door and rang 
the bell. 

One of the Marks boys opened the door, the younger 
one, the freshman. I couldn’t remember his name. His 
sandy hair only came up to my shoulder. 

He had no trouble remembering my name. “Bella 
Swan?” he asked in surprise. 

“How much do you want for the bike?” I panted, 
jerking my thumb over my shoulder toward the sales 
display. 

“Are you serious?” he demanded. 

“Of course I am.” 

“They don’t work.” 

I sighed impatiently — this was something I’d already 
inferred from the sign. “How much?” 

“If you really want one, just take it. My mom made my 
dad move them down to the road so they’d get picked 
up with the garbage.” 

I glanced at the bikes again and saw that they were 
resting on a pile of yard clippings and dead branches. 
“Are you positive about that?” 

“Sure, you want to ask her?” 



128 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It was probably better not to involve adults who might 
mention this to Charlie. 

“No, I believe you.” 

“You want me to help you?” he offered. “They’re not 
light.” 

“Okay, thanks. I only need one, though.” 

“Might as well take both,” the boy said. “Maybe you 
could scavenge some parts.” 

He followed me out into the downpour and helped me 
load both of the heavy bikes into the back of my 
truck. He seemed eager to be rid of them, so I didn’t 
argue. 

“What are you going to do with them, anyway?” he 
asked. “They haven’t worked in years.” 

“I kind of guessed that,” I said, shrugging. My spur- 
of-the-moment whim hadn’t come with a plan intact. 
“Maybe I’ll take them to Dowling’s.” 

He snorted. “Dowling would charge more to fix them 
than they’d be worth running.” 

I couldn’t argue with that. John Dowling had earned a 
reputation for his pricing; no one went to him except 
in an emergency. Most people preferred to make the 
drive up to Port Angeles, if their car was able. I’d been 
very lucky on that front — I’d been worried, when 
Charlie first gifted me my ancient truck, that I 
wouldn’t be able to afford to keep it running. But I’d 
never had a single problem with it, other than the 
screaming-loud engine and the fifty-five-mile-per- 
hour maximum speed limit. Jacob Black had kept it 



129 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




in great shape when it had belonged to his father, 
Billy.... 

Inspiration hit like a bolt of lightning — not 
unreasonable, considering the storm. “You know 
what? That’s okay. I know someone who builds cars.” 

“Oh. That’s good.” He smiled in relief. 

He waved as I pulled away, still smiling. Friendly kid. 

I drove quickly and purposefully now, in a hurry to 
get home before there was the slightest chance of 
Charlie appearing, even in the highly unlikely event 
that he might knock off early. I dashed through the 
house to the phone, keys still in hand. 

“Chief Swan, please,” I said when the deputy 
answered. “It’s Bella.” 

“Oh, hey, Bella,” Deputy Steve said affably. “I’ll go get 
him.” 

I waited. 

“What’s wrong, Bella?” Charlie demanded as soon as 
he picked up the phone. 

“Can’t I call you at work without there being an 
emergency?” 

He was quiet for a minute. “You never have before. Is 
there an emergency?” 

“No. I just wanted directions to the Blacks’ place — I’m 
not sure I can remember the way. I want to visit 
Jacob. I haven’t seen him in months.” 



130 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




When Charlie spoke again, his voice was much 
happier. “That’s a great idea, Bells. Do you have a 
pen?” 

The directions he gave me were very simple. I assured 
him that I would be back for dinner, though he tried 
to tell me not to hurry. He wanted to join me in La 
Push, and I wasn’t having that. 

So it was with a deadline that I drove too quickly 
through the storm-darkened streets out of town. I 
hoped I could get Jacob alone. Billy would probably 
tell on me if he knew what I was up to. 

While I drove, I worried a little bit about Billy’s 
reaction to seeing me. He would be too pleased. In 
Billy’s mind, no doubt, this had all worked out better 
than he had dared to hope. His pleasure and relief 
would only remind me of the one I couldn’t bear to be 
reminded of. Not again today, I pleaded silently. I was 
spent. 

The Blacks’ house was vaguely familiar, a small 
wooden place with narrow windows, the dull red paint 
making it resemble a tiny barn. Jacob’s head peered 
out of the window before I could even get out of the 
truck. No doubt the familiar roar of the engine had 
tipped him off to my approach. Jacob had been very 
grateful when Charlie bought Billy’s truck for me, 
saving Jacob from having to drive it when he came of 
age. I liked my truck very much, but Jacob seemed to 
consider the speed restrictions a shortcoming. 

He met me halfway to the house. 

“Bella!” His excited grin stretched wide across his 
face, the bright teeth standing in vivid contrast to the 
deep russet color of his skin. I’d never seen his hair 



131 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




out of its usual ponytail before. It fell like black satin 
curtains on either side of his broad face. 

Jacob had grown into some of his potential in the last 
eight months. He’d passed that point where the soft 
muscles of childhood hardened into the solid, lanky 
build of a teenager; the tendons and veins had 
become prominent under the red-brown skin of his 
arms, his hands. His face was still sweet like I 
remembered it, though it had hardened, too — the 
planes of his cheekbones sharper, his jaw squared off, 
all childish roundness gone. 

“Hey, Jacob!” I felt an unfamiliar surge of enthusiasm 
at his smile. I realized that I was pleased to see him. 
This knowledge surprised me. 

I smiled back, and something clicked silently into 
place, like two corresponding puzzle pieces. I’d 
forgotten how much I really liked Jacob Black. 

He stopped a few feet away from me, and I stared up 
at him in surprise, leaning my head back though the 
rain pelted my face. 

“You grew again!” I accused in amazement. 

He laughed, his smile widening impossibly. “Six five,” 
he announced with self-satisfaction. His voice was 
deeper, but it had the husky tone I remembered. 

“Is it ever going to stop?” I shook my head in disbelief. 
“You’re huge.” 

“Still a beanpole, though.” He grimaced. “Come inside! 
You’re getting all wet.” 



132 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He led the way, twisting his hair in his big hands as 
he walked. He pulled a rubber band from his hip 
pocket and wound it around the bundle. 

“Hey, Dad,” he called as he ducked to get through the 
front door. “Look who stopped by.” 

Billy was in the tiny square living room, a book in his 
hands. He set the book in his lap and wheeled himself 
forward when he saw me. 

“Well, what do you know! It’s good to see you, Bella.” 

We shook hands. Mine was lost in his wide grasp. 

“What brings you out here? Everything okay with 
Charlie?” 

“Yes, absolutely. I just wanted to see Jacob — I haven’t 
seen him in forever.” 

Jacob’s eyes brightened at my words. He was smiling 
so big it looked like it would hurt his cheeks. 

“Can you stay for dinner?” Billy was eager, too. 

“No, I’ve got to feed Charlie, you know.” 

“I’ll call him now,” Billy suggested. “He’s always 
invited.” 

I laughed to hide my discomfort. “It’s not like you’ll 
never see me again. I promise I’ll be back again 
soon — so much you’ll get sick of me.” After all, if 
Jacob could fix the bike, someone had to teach me 
how to ride it. 

Billy chuckled in response. “Okay, maybe next time.” 



133 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“So, Bella, what do you want to do?” Jacob asked. 

“Whatever. What were you doing before I 
interrupted?” I was strangely comfortable here. It was 
familiar, but only distantly. There were no painful 
reminders of the recent past. 

Jacob hesitated. “I was just heading out to work on 
my car, but we can do something else ...” 

“No, that’s perfect!” I interrupted. “I’d love to see your 
car.” 

“Okay,” he said, not convinced. “It’s out back, in the 
garage.” 

Even better, I thought to myself. I waved at Billy. “See 
you later.” 

A thick stand of trees and shrubbery concealed his 
garage from the house. The garage was no more than 
a couple of big preformed sheds that had been bolted 
together with their interior walls knocked out. Under 
this shelter, raised on cinder blocks, was what looked 
to me like a completed automobile. I recognized the 
symbol on the grille, at least. 

“What kind of Volkswagen is that?” I asked. 

“It’s an old Rabbit — 1986, a classic.” 

“How’s it going?” 

“Almost finished,” he said cheerfully. And then his 
voice dropped into a lower key. “My dad made good on 
his promise last spring.” 

“Ah,” I said. 



134 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He seemed to understand my reluctance to open the 
subject. I tried not to remember last May at the prom. 
Jacob had been bribed by his father with money and 
car parts to deliver a message there. Billy wanted me 
to stay a safe distance from the most important 
person in my life. It turned out that his concern was, 
in the end, unnecessary. I was all too safe now. 

But I was going to see what I could do to change that. 

“Jacob, what do you know about motorcycles?” I 
asked. 

He shrugged. “Some. My friend Embry has a dirt bike. 
We work on it together sometimes. Why?” 

“Well...,” I pursed my lips as I considered. I wasn’t 
sure if he could keep his mouth shut, but I didn’t 
have many other options. “I recently acquired a 
couple of bikes, and they’re not in the greatest 
condition. I wonder if you could get them running?” 

“Cool.” He seemed truly pleased by the challenge. His 
face glowed. “I’ll give it a try.” 

I held up one finger in warning. “The thing is,” I 
explained, “Charlie doesn’t approve of motorcycles. 
Honestly, he’d probably bust a vein in his forehead if 
he knew about this. So you can’t tell Billy.” 

“Sure, sure.” Jacob smiled. “I understand.” 

“I’ll pay you,” I continued. 

This offended him. “No. I want to help. You can’t pay 
me.” 

“Well... how about a trade, then?” I was making this 
up as I went, but it seemed reasonable enough. “I 

135 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




only need one bike — and I’ll need lessons, too. So how 
about this? I’ll give you the other bike, and then you 
can teach me.” 

“Swee-eet.” He made the word into two syllables. 

“Wait a sec — are you legal yet? When’s your 
birthday?” 

“You missed it,” he teased, narrowing his eyes in 
mock resentment. “I’m sixteen.” 

“Not that your age ever stopped you before,” I 
muttered. “Sorry about your birthday.” 

“Don’t worry about it. I missed yours. What are you, 
forty?” 

I sniffed. “Close.” 

“Well have a joint party to make up for it.” 

“Sounds like a date.” 

His eyes sparkled at the word. 

I needed to reign in the enthusiasm before I gave him 
the wrong idea — it was just that it had been a long 
time since I’d felt so light and buoyant. The rarity of 
the feeling made it more difficult to manage. 

“Maybe when the bikes are finished — our present to 
ourselves,” I added. 

“Deal. When will you bring them down?” 

I bit my lip, embarrassed. “They’re in my truck now,” I 
admitted. 



136 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Great.” He seemed to mean it. 



“Will Billy see if we bring them around?” 

He winked at me. “Well be sneaky.” 

We eased around from the east, sticking to the trees 
when we were in view of the windows, affecting a 
casual-looking stroll, just in case. Jacob unloaded the 
bikes swiftly from the truck bed, wheeling them one 
by one into the shrubbery where I hid. It looked too 
easy for him — I’d remembered the bikes being much, 
much heavier than that. 

“These aren’t half bad,” Jacob appraised as we 
pushed them through the cover of the trees. “This one 
here will actually be worth something when I’m 
done — it’s an old Harley Sprint.” 

“That one’s yours, then.” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Absolutely.” 

“These are going to take some cash, though,” he said, 
frowning down at the blackened metal. “We’ll have to 
save up for parts first.” 

“We nothing,” I disagreed. “If you’re doing this for free, 
I’ll pay for the parts.” 

“I don’t know...,” he muttered. 

“I’ve got some money saved. College fund, you know.” 
College, schmollege, I thought to myself. It wasn’t like 
I’d saved up enough to go anywhere special — and 
besides, I had no desire to leave Forks anyway. What 



137 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




difference would it make if I skimmed a little bit off 
the top? 

Jacob just nodded. This all made perfect sense to 
him. 

As we skulked back to the makeshift garage, I 
contemplated my luck. Only a teenage boy would 
agree to this: deceiving both our parents while 
repairing dangerous vehicles using money meant for 
my college education. He didn’t see anything wrong 
with that picture. Jacob was a gift from the gods. 



138 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




FRIENDS 



The motorcycles didn't need to be hidden any further 
than simply placing them in Jacob’s shed. Billy’s 
wheelchair couldn’t maneuver the uneven ground 
separating it from the house. 

Jacob started pulling the first bike — the red one, 
which was destined for me — to pieces immediately. He 
opened up the passenger door of the Rabbit so I could 
sit on the seat instead of the ground. While he 
worked, Jacob chattered happily, needing only the 
lightest of nudges from me to keep the conversation 
rolling. He updated me on the progress of his 
sophomore year of school, running on about his 
classes and his two best friends. 

“Quil and Embry?” I interrupted. “Those are unusual 
names.” 

Jacob chuckled. “Quil’s is a hand-me-down, and I 
think Embry got named after a soap opera star. I 
can’t say anything, though. They fight dirty if you 
start on their names — they’ll tag team you.” 

“Good friends.” I raised one eyebrow. 

“No, they are. Just don’t mess with their names.” 

Just then a call echoed in the distance. “Jacob?” 
someone shouted. 

“Is that Billy?” I asked. 



139 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“No.” Jacob ducked his head, and it looked like he 
was blushing under his brown skin. “Speak of the 
devil,” he mumbled, “and the devil shall appear.” 

“Jake? Are you out here?” The shouting voice was 
closer now. 

“Yeah!” Jacob shouted back, and sighed. 

We waited through the short silence until two tall, 
dark-skinned boys strolled around the corner into the 
shed. 

One was slender, and almost as tall as Jacob. His 
black hair was chin-length and parted down the 
middle, one side tucked behind his left ear while the 
right side swung free. The shorter boy was more 
burly. His white T-shirt strained over his well- 
developed chest, and he seemed gleefully conscious of 
that fact. His hair was so short it was almost a buzz. 

Both boys stopped short when they saw me. The thin 
boy glanced swiftly back and forth between Jacob and 
me, while the brawny boy kept his eyes on me, a slow 
smile spreading across his face. 

“Hey, guys,” Jacob greeted them halfheartedly. 

“Hey, Jake,” the short one said without looking away 
from me. I had to smile in response, his grin was so 
impish. When I did, he winked at me. “Hi, there.” 

“Quil, Embry — this is my friend, Bella.” 

Quil and Embry, I still didn’t know which was which, 
exchanged a loaded look. 

“Charlie’s kid, right?” the brawny boy asked me, 
holding out his hand. 

140 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s right,” I confirmed, shaking hands with him. 
His grasp was firm; it looked like he was flexing his 
bicep. 

“I’m Quil Ateara,” he announced grandly before 
releasing my hand. 

“Nice to meet you, Quil.” 

“Hey, Bella. I’m Embry, Embry Call — you probably 
already figured that out, though.” Embry smiled a shy 
smile and waved with one hand, which he then 
shoved in the pocket of his jeans. 

I nodded. “Nice to meet you, too.” 

“So what are you guys doing?” Quil asked, still 
looking at me. 

“Bella and I are going to fix up these bikes,” Jacob 
explained inaccurately. But bikes seemed to be the 
magic word. Both boys went to examine Jacob’s 
project, drilling him with educated questions. Many of 
the words they used were unfamiliar to me, and I 
figured I’d have to have a Y chromosome to really 
understand the excitement. 

They were still immersed in talk of parts and pieces 
when I decided that I needed to head back home 
before Charlie showed up here. With a sigh, I slid out 
of the Rabbit. 

Jacob looked up, apologetic. “We’re boring you, aren’t 
we?” 

“Naw.” And it wasn’t a lie. I was enjoying myself — how 
strange. “I just have to go cook dinner for Charlie.” 



141 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh... well, I’ll finish taking these apart tonight and 
figure out what more we’ll need to get started 
rebuilding them. When do you want to work on them 
again?” 

“Could I come back tomorrow?” Sundays were the 
bane of my existence. There was never enough 
homework to keep me busy. 

Quil nudged Embry’s arm and they exchanged grins. 

Jacob smiled in delight. “That would be great!” 

“If you make a list, we can go shop for parts,” I 
suggested. 

Jacob’s face fell a little. “I’m still not sure I should let 
you pay for everything.” 

I shook my head. “No way. I’m bankrolling this party. 
You just have to supply the labor and expertise.” 

Embry rolled his eyes at Quil. 

“That doesn’t seem right,” Jacob shook his head. 

“Jake, if I took these to a mechanic, how much would 
he charge me?” I pointed out. 

He smiled. “Okay, you’re getting a deal.” 

“Not to mention the riding lessons,” I added. 

Quil grinned widely at Embry and whispered 
something I didn’t catch. Jacob’s hand flashed out to 
smack the back of Quil’s head. “That’s it, get out,” he 
muttered. 



142 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“No, really, I have to go,” I protested, heading for the 
door. “I’ll see you tomorrow, Jacob.” 

As soon as I was out of sight, I heard Quil and Embry 
chorus, “Wooooo!” 

The sound of a brief scuffle followed, interspersed 
with an “ouch” and a “hey!” 

“If either of you set so much as one toe on my land 
tomorrow . . .” I heard Jacob threaten. His voice was 
lost as I walked through the trees. 

I giggled quietly. The sound made my eyes widen in 
wonder. I was laughing, actually laughing, and there 
wasn’t even anyone watching. I felt so weightless that 
I laughed again, just make the feeling last longer. 

I beat Charlie home. When he walked in I was just 
taking the fried chicken out of the pan and laying it 
on a pile of paper towels. 

“Hey, Dad.” I flashed him a grin. 

Shock flitted across his face before he pulled his 
expression together. “Hey, honey,” he said, his voice 
uncertain. “Did you have fun with Jacob?” 

I started moving the food to the table. “Yeah, I did.” 

“Well, that’s good.” He was still cautious. “What did 
you two do?” 

Now it was my turn to be cautious. “I hung out in his 
garage and watched him work. Did you know he’s 
rebuilding a Volkswagen?” 

“Yeah, I think Billy mentioned that.” 



143 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The interrogation had to stop when Charlie began 
chewing, but he continued to study my face as he ate. 



After dinner, I dithered around, cleaning the kitchen 
twice, and then did my homework slowly in the front 
room while Charlie watched a hockey game. I waited 
as long as I could, but finally Charlie mentioned the 
late hour. When I didn’t respond, he got up, 
stretched, and then left, turning out the light behind 
him. Reluctantly, I followed. 

As I climbed the stairs, I felt the last of the afternoon’s 
abnormal sense of well-being drain from my system, 
replaced by a dull fear at the thought of what I was 
going to have to live through now. 

I wasn’t numb anymore. Tonight would, no doubt, be 
as horrific as last night. I lay down on my bed and 
curled into a ball in preparation for the onslaught. I 
squeezed my eyes shut and... the next thing I next I 
knew, it was morning. 

I stared at the pale silver light coming through my 
window, stunned. 

For the first time in more than four months, I’d slept 
without dreaming. Dreaming or screaming. I couldn’t 
tell which emotion was stronger — the relief or the 
shock. 

I lay still in my bed for a few minutes, waiting for it to 
come back. Because something must be coming. If 
not the pain, then the numbness. I waited, but 
nothing happened. I felt more rested than I had in a 
long time. 

I didn’t trust this to last. It was a slippery, precarious 
edge that I balanced on, and it wouldn’t take much to 
knock me back down. Just glancing around my room 

144 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




with these suddenly clear eyes — noticing how strange 
it looked, too tidy, like I didn’t live here at all — was 
dangerous. 

I pushed that thought from my mind, and 
concentrated, as I got dressed, on the fact that I was 
going to see Jacob again today. The thought made me 
feel almost... hopeful. Maybe it would be the same as 
yesterday. Maybe I wouldn’t have to remind myself to 
look interested and to nod or smile at appropriate 
intervals, the way I had to with everyone else. 

Maybe... but I wouldn’t trust this to last, either. 
Wouldn’t trust it to be the same — so easy — as 
yesterday. I wasn’t going to set myself up for 
disappointment like that. 

At breakfast, Charlie was being careful, too. He tried 
to hide his scrutiny, keeping his eyes on his eggs 
until he thought I wasn’t looking. 

“What are you up to today?” he asked, eyeing a loose 
thread on the edge of his cuff like he wasn’t paying 
much attention to my answer. 

“I’m going to hang out with Jacob again.” 

He nodded without looking up. “Oh,” he said. 

“Do you mind?” I pretended to worry. “I could stay....” 

He glanced up quickly, a hint of panic in his eyes. 

“No, no! You go ahead. Harry was going to come up to 
watch the game with me anyway.” 

“Maybe Harry could give Billy a ride up,” I suggested. 
The fewer witnesses the better. 

“That’s a great idea.” 



145 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I wasn’t sure if the game was just an excuse for 
kicking me out, but he looked excited enough now. He 
headed to the phone while I donned my rain jacket. I 
felt self- conscious with the checkbook shoved in my 
jacket pocket. It was something I never used. 

Outside, the rain came down like water slopped from 
a bucket. I had to drive more slowly than I wanted to; 

I could hardly see a car length in front of the truck. 
But I finally made it through the muddy lanes to 
Jacob’s house. Before I’d killed the engine, the front 
door opened and Jacob came running out with a huge 
black umbrella. 

He held it over my door while I opened it. 

“Charlie called — said you were on your way,” Jacob 
explained with a grin. 

Effortlessly, without a conscious command to the 
muscles around my lips, my answering smile spread 
across my face. A strange feeling of warmth bubbled 
up in my throat, despite the icy rain splattering on 
my cheeks. 

“Hi, Jacob.” 

“Good call on inviting Billy up.” He held up his hand 
for a high five. 

I had to reach so high to slap his hand that he 
laughed. 

Harry showed up to get Billy just a few minutes later. 
Jacob took me on a brief tour of his tiny room while 
we waited to be unsupervised. 



“So where to, Mr. Goodwrench?” I asked as soon as 
the door closed behind Billy. 

146 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob pulled a folded paper out of his pocket and 
smoothed it out. “We’ll start at the dump first, see if 
we can get lucky. This could get a little expensive,” he 
warned me. “Those bikes are going to need a lot of 
help before they’ll run again.” My face didn’t look 
worried enough, so he continued. “I’m talking about 
maybe more than a hundred dollars here.” 

I pulled my checkbook out, fanned myself with it, and 
rolled my eyes at his worries. “We’re covered.” 

It was a very strange kind of day. I enjoyed myself. 
Even at the dump, in the slopping rain and ankle- 
deep mud. I wondered at first if it was just the 
aftershock of losing the numbness, but I didn’t think 
that was enough of an explanation. 

I was beginning to think it was mostly Jacob. It 
wasn’t just that he was always so happy to see me, or 
that he didn’t watch me out of the corner of his eye, 
waiting for me to do something that would mark me 
as crazy or depressed. It was nothing that related to 
me at all. 

It was Jacob himself. Jacob was simply a perpetually 
happy person, and he carried that happiness with 
him like an aura, sharing it with whoever was near 
him. Like an earthbound sun, whenever someone was 
within his gravitational pull, Jacob warmed them. It 
was natural, a part of who he was. No wonder I was 
so eager to see him. 

Even when he commented on the gaping hole in my 
dashboard, it didn’t send me into a panic like it 
should have. 

“Did the stereo break?” he wondered. 

“Yeah,” I lied. 

147 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He poked around in the cavity. “Who took it out? 
There’s a lot of damage....” 

“I did,” I admitted. 

He laughed. “Maybe you shouldn’t touch the motor 
cycles too much.” 

“No problem.” 

According to Jacob, we did get lucky at the dump. He 
was very excited about several grease-blackened 
pieces of twisted metal that he found; I was just 
impressed that he could tell what they were supposed 
to be. 

From there we went to the Checker Auto Parts down 
in Hoquiam. In my truck, it was more than a two 
hour drive south on the winding freeway, but the time 
passed easily with Jacob. He chattered about his 
friends and his school, and I found myself asking 
questions, not even pretending, truly curious to hear 
what he had to say. 

“I’m doing all the talking,” he complained after a long 
story about Quil and the trouble he’d stirred up by 
asking out a senior’s steady girlfriend. “Why don’t you 
take a turn? What’s going on in Forks? It has to be 
more exciting than La Push.” 

“Wrong,” I sighed. “There’s really nothing. Your 
friends are a lot more interesting than mine. I like 
your friends. Quil’s funny.” 

He frowned. “I think Quil likes you, too.” 

I laughed. “He’s a little young for me.” 



148 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob’s frown deepened. “He’s not that much younger 
than you. It’s just a year and a few months.” 

I had a feeling we weren’t talking about Quil anymore. 
I kept my voice light, teasing. “Sure, but, considering 
the difference in maturity between guys and girls, 
don’t you have to count that in dog years? What does 
that make me, about twelve years older?” 

He laughed, rolling his eyes. “Okay, but if you’re going 
to get picky like that, you have to average in size, too. 
You’re so small, I’ll have to knock ten years off your 
total.” 

“Five foot four is perfectly average.” I sniffed. “It’s not 
my fault you’re a freak.” 

We bantered like that till Hoquiam, still arguing over 
the correct formula to determine age — I lost two more 
years because I didn’t know how to change a tire, but 
gained one back for being in charge of the 
bookkeeping at my house — until we were in Checker, 
and Jacob had to concentrate again. We found 
everything left on his list, and Jacob felt confident 
that he could make a lot of progress with our haul. 

By the time we got back to La Push, I was twenty- 
three and he was thirty — he was definitely weighting 
skills in his favor. 

I hadn’t forgotten the reason for what I was doing. 
And, even though I was enjoying myself more than I’d 
thought possible, there was no lessening of my 
original desire. I still wanted to cheat. It was 
senseless, and I really didn’t care. I was going to be as 
reckless as I could possibly manage in Forks. I would 
not be the only keeper of an empty contract. Getting 
to spend time with Jacob was just a much bigger perk 
than I’d expected. 

149 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Billy wasn’t back yet, so we didn’t have to be sneaky 
about unloading our day’s spoils. As soon as we had 
everything laid out on the plastic floor next to Jacob’s 
toolbox, he went right to work, still talking and 
laughing while his fingers combed expertly through 
the metal pieces in front of him. 

Jacob’s skill with his hands was fascinating. They 
looked too big for the delicate tasks they performed 
with ease and precision. While he worked, he seemed 
almost graceful. Unlike when he was on his feet; 
there, his height and big feet made him nearly as 
dangerous as I was. 

Quil and Embry did not show up, so maybe his threat 
yesterday had been taken seriously. 

The day passed too quickly. It got dark outside the 
mouth of the garage before I was expecting it, and 
then we heard Billy calling for us. 

I jumped up to help Jacob put things away, hesitating 
because I wasn’t sure what I should touch. 

“Just leave it,” he said. “I’ll work on it later tonight.” 

“Don’t forget your schoolwork or anything,” I said, 
feeling a little guilty. I didn’t want him to get in 
trouble. That plan was just for me. 

“Bella?” 

Both our heads snapped up as Charlie’s familiar voice 
wafted through the trees, sounding closer than the 
house. 

“Shoot,” I muttered. “Coming!” I yelled toward the 
house. 



150 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Let’s go.” Jacob smiled, enjoying the cloak-and- 
dagger. He snapped the light off, and for a moment I 
was blind. Jacob grabbed my hand and towed me out 
of the garage and through the trees, his feet finding 
the familiar path easily. His hand was rough, and 
very warm. 

Despite the path, we were both tripping over our feet 
in the darkness. So we were also both laughing when 
the house came into view. The laughter did not go 
deep; it was light and superficial, but still nice. I was 
sure he wouldn’t notice the faint hint of hysteria. I 
wasn’t used to laughing, and it felt right and also very 
wrong at the same time. 

Charlie was standing under the little back porch, and 
Billy was sitting in the doorway behind them. 

“Hey, Dad,” we both said at the same time, and that 
started us laughing again. 

Charlie stared at me with wide eyes that flashed down 
to note Jacob’s hand around mine. 

“Billy invited us for dinner,” Charlie said to us in an 
absentminded tone. 

“My super secret recipe for spaghetti. Handed down 
for generations,” Billy said gravely. 

Jacob snorted. “I don’t think Ragu’s actually been 
around that long.” 

The house was crowded. Harry Clearwater was there, 
too, with his family — his wife, Sue, whom I knew 
vaguely from my childhood summers in Forks, and 
his two children. Leah was a senior like me, but a 
year older. She was beautiful in an exotic way — 
perfect copper skin, glistening black hair, eyelashes 
151 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




like feather dusters — and preoccupied. She was on 
Billy’s phone when we got in, and she never let it go. 
Seth was fourteen; he hung on Jacob’s every word 
with idolizing eyes. 

There were too many of us for the kitchen table, so 
Charlie and Harry brought chairs out to the yard, and 
we ate spaghetti off plates on our laps in the dim light 
from Billy’s open door. The men talked about the 
game, and Harry and Charlie made fishing plans. Sue 
teased her husband about his cholesterol and tried, 
unsuccessfully, to shame him into eating something 
green and leafy. Jacob talked mostly to me and Seth, 
who interrupted eagerly whenever Jacob seemed in 
danger of forgetting him. Charlie watched me, trying 
to be inconspicuous about it, with pleased but 
cautious eyes. 

It was loud and sometimes confusing as everyone 
talked over everyone else, and the laughter from one 
joke interrupted the telling of another. I didn’t have to 
speak often, but I smiled a lot, and only because I felt 
like it. 

I didn’t want to leave. 

This was Washington, though, and the inevitable rain 
eventually broke up the party; Billy’s living room was 
much too small to provide an option for continuing 
the get-together. Harry had driven Charlie down, so 
we rode together in my truck on the way back home. 
He asked about my day, and I told mostly the truth — 
that I’d gone with Jacob to look at parts and then 
watched him work in his garage. 

“You think you’ll visit again anytime soon?” he 
wondered, trying to be casual about it. 



152 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Tomorrow after school,” I admitted. “I’ll take 
homework, don’t worry.” 

“You be sure to do that,” he ordered, trying to 
disguise his satisfaction. 

I was nervous when we got to the house. I didn’t want 
to go upstairs. The warmth of Jacob’s presence was 
fading and, in its absence, the anxiety grew stronger. 

I was sure I wouldn’t get away with two peaceful 
nights of sleep in a row. 

To put bedtime off, I checked my e-mail; there was a 
new message from Renee. 

She wrote about her day, a new book club that filled 
the time slot of the meditation classes she’d just quit, 
her week subbing in the second grade, missing her 
kindergarteners. She wrote that Phil was enjoying his 
new coaching job, and that they were planning a 
second honeymoon trip to Disney World. 

And I noticed that the whole thing read like a journal 
entry, rather than a letter to someone else. Remorse 
flooded through me, leaving an uncomfortable sting 
behind. Some daughter I was. 

I wrote back to her quickly, commenting on each part 
of her letter, volunteering information of my own — 
describing the spaghetti party at Billy’s and how I felt 
watching Jacob build useful things out of small 
pieces of metal — awed and slightly envious. I made no 
reference to the change this letter would be from the 
ones she’d received in the last several months. I could 
barely remember what I’d written to her even as 
recently as last week, but I was sure it wasn’t very 
responsive. The more I thought about it, the guiltier I 
felt; I really must have worried her. 



153 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I stayed up extra late after that, finishing more 
homework than strictly necessary. But neither sleep 
deprivation nor the time spent with Jacob — being 
almost happy in a shallow kind of way — could keep 
the dream away for two nights in a row. 

I woke shuddering, my scream muffled by the pillow. 

As the dim morning light filtered through the fog 
outside my window, I lay still in bed and tried to 
shake off the dream. There had been a small 
difference last night, and I concentrated on that. 

Last night I had not been alone in the woods. Sam 
Uley — the man who had pulled me from the forest 
floor that night I couldn’t bear to think of 
consciously — was there. It was an odd, unexpected 
alteration. The man’s dark eyes had been surprisingly 
unfriendly, filled with some secret he didn’t seem 
inclined to share. I’d stared at him as often as my 
frantic searching had allowed; it made me 
uncomfortable, under all the usual panic, to have him 
there. Maybe that was because, when I didn’t look 
directly at him, his shape seemed to shiver and 
change in my peripheral vision. Yet he did nothing 
but stand and watch. Unlike the time when we had 
met in reality, he did not offer me his help. 

Charlie stared at me during breakfast, and I tried to 
ignore him. I supposed I deserved it. I couldn’t expect 
him not to worry. It would probably be weeks before 
he stopped watching for the return of the zombie, and 
I would just have to try to not let it bother me. After 
all, I would be watching for the return of the zombie, 
too. Two days was hardly long enough to call me 
cured. 

School was the opposite. Now that I was paying 
attention, it was clear that no one was watching here. 

154 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I remembered the first day I’d come to Forks High 
School — how desperately I’d wished that I could turn 
gray, fade into the wet concrete of the sidewalk like 
an oversized chameleon. It seemed I was getting that 
wish answered, a year late. 

It was like I wasn’t there. Even my teachers’ eyes slid 
past my seat as if it were empty. 

I listened all through the morning, hearing once again 
the voices of the people around me. I tried to catch up 
on what was going on, but the conversations were so 
disjointed that I gave up. 

Jessica didn’t look up when I sat down next to her in 
Calculus. 

“Hey, Jess,” I said with put-on nonchalance. “How 
was the rest of your weekend?” 

She looked at me with suspicious eyes. Could she still 
be angry? Or was she just too impatient to deal with a 
crazy person? 

“Super,” she said, turning back to her book. 

“That’s good,” I mumbled. 

The figure of speech cold shoulder seemed to have 
some literal truth to it. I could feel the warm air 
blowing from the floor vents, but I was still too cold. I 
took the jacket off the back of my chair and put it on 
again. 

My fourth hour class got out late, and the lunch table 
I always sat at was full by the time I arrived. Mike 
was there, Jessica and Angela, Conner, Tyler, Eric 
and Lauren. Katie Marshall, the redheaded junior 
who lived around the corner from me, was sitting with 
155 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Eric, and Austin Marks — older brother to the boy with 
the motor cycles — was next to her. I wondered how 
long they’d been sitting here, unable to remember if 
this was the first day or something that was a regular 
habit. 

I was beginning to get annoyed with myself. I might 
as well have been packed in Styrofoam peanuts 
through the last semester. 

No one looked up when I sat down next to Mike, even 
though the chair squealed stridently against the 
linoleum as I dragged it back. 

I tried to catch up with the conversation. 

Mike and Conner were talking sports, so I gave up on 
that one at once. 

“Where’s Ben today?” Lauren was asking Angela. I 
perked up, interested. I wondered if that meant 
Angela and Ben were still together. 

I barely recognized Lauren. She’d cut off all her blond, 
corn-silk hair — now she had a pixie cut so short that 
the back was shaved like a boy. What an odd thing for 
her to do. I wished I knew the reason behind it. Did 
she get gum stuck in it? Did she sell it? Had all the 
people she was habitually nasty to caught her behind 
the gym and scalped her? I decided it wasn’t fair for 
me to judge her now by my former opinion. For all I 
knew, she’d turned into a nice person. 

“Ben’s got the stomach flu,” Angela said in her quiet, 
calm voice. “Hopefully it’s just some twenty-four hour 
thing. He was really sick last night.” 

Angela had changed her hair, too. She’d grown out 
her layers. 

156 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What did you two do this weekend?” Jessica asked, 
not sounding as if she cared about the answer. I’d bet 
that this was just an opener so she could tell her own 
stories. I wondered if she would talk about Port 
Angeles with me sitting two seats away? Was I that 
invisible, that no one would feel uncomfortable 
discussing me while I was here? 

“We were going to have a picnic Saturday, actually, 
but... we changed our minds,” Angela said. There was 
an edge to her voice that caught my interest. 

Jess, not so much. “That’s too bad,” she said, about 
to launch into her story. But I wasn’t the only one 
who was paying attention. 

“What happened?” Lauren asked curiously. 

“Well,” Angela said, seeming more hesitant than 
usual, though she was always reserved, “we drove up 
north, almost to the hot springs — there’s a good spot 
just about a mile up the trail. But, when we were 
halfway there... we saw something.” 

“Saw something? What?” Lauren’s pale eyebrows 
pulled together. Even Jess seemed to be listening 
now. 

“I don’t know,” Angela said. “We think it was a bear. It 
was black, anyway, but it seemed... too big.” 

Lauren snorted. “Oh, not you, too!” Her eyes turned 
mocking, and I decided I didn’t need to give her the 
benefit of the doubt. Obviously her personality had 
not changed as much as her hair. “Tyler tried to sell 
me that one last week.” 

“You’re not going to see any bears that close to the 
resort,” Jessica said, siding with Lauren. 

157 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Really,” Angela protested in a low voice, looking down 
at the table. “We did see it.” 

Lauren snickered. Mike was still talking to Conner, 
not paying attention to the girls. 

“No, she’s right,” I threw in impatiently. “We had a 
hiker in just Saturday who saw the bear, too, Angela. 
He said it was huge and black and just outside of 
town, didn’t he, Mike?” 

There was a moment of silence. Every pair of eyes at 
the table turned to stare at me in shock. The new girl, 
Katie, had her mouth hanging open like she’d just 
witnessed an explosion. Nobody moved. 

“Mike?” I muttered, mortified. “Remember the guy 
with the bear story?” 

“S-sure,” Mike stuttered after a second. I didn’t know 
why he was looking at me so strangely. I talked to 
him at work, didn’t I? Did I? I thought so.... 

Mike recovered. “Yeah, there was a guy who said he 
saw a huge black bear right at the trailhead — bigger 
than a grizzly,” he confirmed. 

“Hmph.” Lauren turned to Jessica, her shoulders 
stiff, and changed the subject. 

“Did you hear back from USC?” she asked. 

Everyone else looked away, too, except for Mike and 
Angela. Angela smiled at me tentatively, and I hurried 
to return the smile. 

“So, what did you do this weekend, Bella?” Mike 
asked, curious, but oddly wary. 



158 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Everyone but Lauren looked back, waiting for my 
response. 

“Friday night, Jessica and I went to a movie in Port 
Angeles. And then I spent Saturday afternoon and 
most of Sunday down at La Push.” 

The eyes flickered to Jessica and back to me. Jess 
looked irritated. I wondered if she didn’t want anyone 
to know she’d gone out with me, or whether she just 
wanted to be the one to tell the story. 

“What movie did you see?” Mike asked, starting to 
smile. 

“Dead End — the one with the zombies.” I grinned in 
encouragement. Maybe some of the damage I’d done 
in these past zombie months was reparable. 

“I heard that was scary. Did you think so?” Mike was 
eager to continue the conversation. 

“Bella had to leave at the end, she was so freaked,” 
Jessica inserted with a sly smile. 

I nodded, trying to look embarrassed. “It was pretty 
scary.” 

Mike didn’t stop asking me questions till lunch was 
over. Gradually, the others were able to start up their 
own conversations again, though they still looked at 
me a lot. Angela talked mostly to Mike and me, and, 
when I got up to dump my tray, she followed. 

“Thanks,” she said in a low voice when we were away 
from the table. 

“For what?” 



159 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Speaking up, sticking up for me.” 

“No problem.” 

She looked at me with concern, but not the offensive, 
maybe-she’s-lost-it kind. “Are you okay?” 

This is why I’d picked Jessica over Angela — though I’d 
always liked Angela more — for the girls’ night movie. 
Angela was too perceptive. 

“Not completely,” I admitted. “But I’m a little bit 
better.” 

“I’m glad,” she said. “I’ve missed you.” 

Lauren and Jessica strolled by us then, and I heard 
Lauren whisper loudly, “Oh, joy. Bella’s back.” 

Angela rolled her eyes at them, and smiled at me in 
encouragement . 

I sighed. It was like I was starting all over again. 
“What’s today’s date?” I wondered suddenly. 

“It’s January nineteenth.” 

“Hmm.” 



“What is it?” Angela asked. 

“It was a year ago yesterday that I had my first day 
here,” I mused. 

“Nothing’s changed much,” Angela muttered, looking 
after Lauren and Jessica. 



160 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I know,” I agreed. “I was just thinking the same 
thing.” 



161 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




REPETITION 



I wasn't sure what the hell I was doing here. 

Was I trying to push myself back into the zombie 
stupor? Had I turned masochistic — developed a taste 
for torture? I should have gone straight down to La 
Push. I felt much, much healthier around Jacob. This 
was not a healthy thing to do. 

But I continued to drive slowly down the overgrown 
lane, twisting through the trees that arched over me 
like a green, living tunnel. My hands were shaking, so 
I tightened my grip on the steering wheel. 

I knew that part of the reason I did this was the 
nightmare; now that I was really awake, the 
nothingness of the dream gnawed on my nerves, a 
dog worrying a bone. There was something to search 
for. Unattainable and impossible, uncaring and 
distracted... but he was out there, somewhere. I had to 
believe that. 

The other part was the strange sense of repetition I’d 
felt at school today, the coincidence of the date. The 
feeling that I was starting over — perhaps the way my 
first day would have gone if I’d really been the most 
unusual person in the cafeteria that afternoon. 

The words ran through my head, tonelessly, like I was 
reading them rather than hearing them spoken: 

It will be as if I’d never existed. 

I was lying to myself by splitting my reason for 
coming here into just two parts. I didn’t want to admit 

162 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



the strongest motivation. Because it was mentally 
unsound. 

The truth was that I wanted to hear his voice again, 
like I had in the strange delusion Friday night. For 
that brief moment, when his voice came from some 
other part of me than my conscious memory, when 
his voice was perfect and honey smooth rather than 
the pale echo my memories usually produced, I was 
able to remember without pain. It hadn’t lasted; the 
pain had caught up with me, as I was sure it would 
for this fool’s errand. But those precious moments 
when I could hear him again were an irresistible lure. 

I had to find some way to repeat the experience... or 
maybe the better word was episode. 

I was hoping that deja vu was the key. So I was going 
to his home, a place I hadn’t been since my ill-fated 
birthday party, so many months ago. 

The thick, almost jungle-like growth crawled slowly 
past my windows. The drive wound on and on. I 
started to go faster, getting edgy. How long had I been 
driving? Shouldn’t I have reached the house yet? The 
lane was so overgrown that it did not look familiar. 

What if I couldn’t find it? I shivered. What if there was 
no tangible proof at all? 

Then there was the break in the trees that I was 
looking for, only it was not so pronounced as before. 
The flora here did not wait long to reclaim any land 
that was left unguarded. The tall ferns had infiltrated 
the meadow around the house, crowding against the 
trunks of the cedars, even the wide porch. It was like 
the lawn had been flooded — waist-high — with green, 
feathery waves. 



163 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




And the house was there, but it was not the same. 
Though nothing had changed on the outside, the 
emptiness screamed from the blank windows. It was 
creepy. For the first time since I’d seen the beautiful 
house, it looked like a fitting haunt for vampires. 

I hit the brakes, looking away. I was afraid to go 
farther. 

But nothing happened. No voice in my head. 

So I left the engine running and jumped out into the 
fern sea. Maybe, like Friday night, if I walked 
forward... 

I approached the barren, vacant face slowly, my truck 
rumbling out a comforting roar behind me. I stopped 
when I got to the porch stairs, because there was 
nothing here. No lingering sense of their presence... of 
his presence. The house was solidly here, but it 
meant little. Its concrete reality would not counteract 
the nothingness of the nightmares. 

I didn’t go any closer. I didn’t want to look in the 
windows. I wasn’t sure which would be harder to see. 
If the rooms were bare, echoing empty from floor to 
ceiling, that would certainly hurt. Like my 
grandmother’s funeral, when my mother had insisted 
that I stay outside during the viewing. She had said 
that I didn’t need to see Gran that way, to remember 
her that way, rather than alive. 

But wouldn’t it be worse if there were no change? If 
the couches sat just as I’d last seen them, the 
paintings on the walls — worse still, the piano on its 
low platform? It would be second only to the house 
disappearing all together, to see that there was no 
physical possession that tied them in anyway. That 



164 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




everything remained, untouched and forgotten, 
behind them. 

Just like me. 

I turned my back on the gaping emptiness and 
hurried to my truck. I nearly ran. I was anxious to be 
gone, to get back to the human world. I felt hideously 
empty, and I wanted to see Jacob. Maybe I was 
developing a new kind of sickness, another addiction, 
like the numbness before. I didn’t care. I pushed my 
truck as fast as it would go as I barreled toward my 
fix. 

Jacob was waiting for me. My chest seemed to relax 
as soon as I saw him, making it easier to breathe. 

“Hey, Bella,” he called. 

I smiled in relief. “Hey, Jacob.” I waved at Billy, who 
was looking out the window. 

“Let’s get to work,” Jacob said in a low but eager 
voice. 

I was somehow able to laugh. “You seriously aren’t 
sick of me yet?” I wondered. He must be starting to 
ask himself how desperate I was for company. 

Jacob led the way around the house to his garage. 

“Nope. Not yet.” 

“Please let me know when I start getting on your 
nerves. I don’t want to be a pain.” 

“Okay.” He laughed, a throaty sound. “I wouldn’t hold 
your breath for that, though.” 



165 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




When I walked into the garage, I was shocked to see 
the red bike standing up, looking like a motorcycle 
rather than a pile of jagged metal. 

“Jake, you’re amazing,” I breathed. 

He laughed again. “I get obsessive when I have a 
project.” He shrugged. “If I had any brains I’d drag it 
out a little bit.” 

“Why?” 

He looked down, pausing for so long that I wondered 
if he hadn’t heard my question. Finally, he asked me, 
“Bella, if I told you that I couldn’t fix these bikes, 
what would you say?” 

I didn’t answer right away, either, and he glanced up 
to check my expression. 

“I would say... that’s too bad, but I’ll bet we could 
figure out something else to do. If we got really 
desperate, we could even do homework.” 

Jacob smiled, and his shoulders relaxed. He sat down 
next to the bike and picked up a wrench. “So you 
think you’ll still come over when I’m done, then?” 

“Is that what you meant?” I shook my head. “I guess I 
am taking advantage of your very underpriced 
mechanical skills. But as long as you let me come 
over, I’ll be here.” 

“Hoping to see Quil again?” he teased. 

“You caught me.” 

He chuckled. “You really like spending time with me?” 
he asked, marveling. 

166 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Very, very much. And I’ll prove it. I have to work 
tomorrow, but Wednesday we’ll do something 
nonmechanical . ” 

“Like what?” 

“I have no idea. We can go to my place so you won’t 
be tempted to be obsessive. You could bring your 
schoolwork — you have to be getting behind, because I 
know I am.” 

“Homework might be a good idea.” He made a face, 
and I wondered how much he was leaving undone to 
be with me. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “We’ll have to start being responsible 
occasionally, or Billy and Charlie aren’t going to be so 
easygoing about this.” I made a gesture indicating the 
two of us as a single entity. He liked that — he 
beamed. 

“Homework once a week?” he proposed. 

“Maybe we’d better go with twice,” I suggested, 
thinking of the pile I’d just been assigned today. 

He sighed a heavy sigh. Then he reached over his 
toolbox to a paper grocery sack. He pulled out two 
cans of soda, cracking one open and handing it to me. 
He opened the second, and held it up ceremoniously. 

“Here’s to responsibility,” he toasted. “Twice a week.” 

“And recklessness every day in between,” I 
emphasized. 

He grinned and touched his can to mine. 



167 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I got home later than I’d planned and found Charlie 
had ordered a pizza rather than wait for me. He 
wouldn’t let me apologize. 

“I don’t mind,” he assured me. “You deserve a break 
from all the cooking, anyway.” 

I knew he was just relieved that I was still acting like 
a normal person, and he was not about to rock the 
boat. 

I checked my e-mail before I started on my 
homework, and there was a long one from Renee. She 
gushed over every detail I’d provided her with, so I 
sent back another exhaustive description of my day. 
Everything but the motorcycles. Even happy-go-lucky 
Renee was likely to be alarmed by that. 

School Tuesday had its ups and downs. Angela and 
Mike seemed ready to welcome me back with open 
arms — to kindly overlook my few months of aberrant 
behavior. Jess was more resistant. I wondered if she 
needed a formal written apology for the Port Angeles 
incident. 

Mike was animated and chatty at work. It was like 
he’d stored up the semester’s worth of talk, and it was 
all spilling out now. I found that I was able to smile 
and laugh with him, though it wasn’t as effortless as 
it was with Jacob. It seemed harmless enough, until 
quitting time. 

Mike put the closed sign in the window while I folded 
my vest and shoved it under the counter. 

“This was fun tonight,” Mike said happily. 

“Yeah,” I agreed, though I’d much rather have spent 
the afternoon in the garage. 

168 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s too bad that you had to leave the movie early last 
week.” 

I was a little confused by his train of thought. I 
shrugged. “I’m just a wimp, I guess.” 

“What I mean is, you should go to a better movie, 
something you’d enjoy,” he explained. 

“Oh,” I muttered, still confused. 

“Like maybe this Friday. With me. We could go see 
something that isn’t scary at all.” 

I bit my lip. 

I didn’t want to screw things up with Mike, not when 
he was one of the only people ready to forgive me for 
being crazy. But this, again, felt far too familiar. Like 
the last year had never happened. I wished I had Jess 
as an excuse this time. 

“Like a date?” I asked. Honesty was probably the best 
policy at this point. Get it over with. 

He processed the tone of my voice. “If you want. But it 
doesn’t have to be like that.” 

“I don’t date,” I said slowly, realizing how true that 
was. That whole world seemed impossibly distant. 

“Just as friends?” he suggested. His clear blue eyes 
were not as eager now. I hoped he really meant that 
we could be friends anyway. 

“That would be fun. But I actually have plans already 
this Friday, so maybe next week?” 



169 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What are you doing?” he asked, less casually than I 
think he wanted to sound. 



“Homework. I have a... study session planned with a 
friend.” 

“Oh. Okay. Maybe next week.” 

He walked me to my car, less exuberant than before. 

It reminded me so clearly of my first months in Forks. 
I’d come full circle, and now everything felt like an 
echo — an empty echo, devoid of the interest it used to 
have. 

The next night, Charlie didn’t seem the smallest bit 
surprised to find Jacob and me sprawled across the 
living room floor with our books scattered around us, 
so I guessed that he and Billy were talking behind our 
backs. 

“Hey, kids,” he said, his eyes straying to the kitchen. 
The smell of the lasagna I’d spent the afternoon 
making — while Jacob watched and occasionally 
sampled — wafted down the hall; I was being good, 
trying to atone for all the pizza. 

Jacob stayed for dinner, and took a plate home for 
Billy. He grudgingly added another year to my 
negotiable age for being a good cook. 

Friday was the garage, and Saturday, after my shift at 
Newton’s, was homework again. Charlie felt secure 
enough in my sanity to spend the day fishing with 
Harry. When he got back, we were all done — feeling 
very sensible and mature about it, too — and watching 
Monster Garage on the Discovery Channel. 

“I probably ought to go.” Jacob sighed. “It’s later than 
I thought.” 

170 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay, fine,” I grumbled. “I’ll take you home.” 



He laughed at my unwilling expression — it seemed to 
please him. 

“Tomorrow, back to work,” I said as soon as we were 
safe in the truck. “What time do you want me to come 
up?” 

There was an unexplained excitement in his 
answering smile. “I’ll call you first, okay?” 

“Sure.” I frowned to myself, wondering what was up. 
His smile widened. 

I cleaned the house the next morning — waiting for 
Jacob to call and trying to shake off the latest 
nightmare. The scenery had changed. Last night I’d 
wandered in a wide sea of ferns interspersed with 
huge hemlock trees. There was nothing else there, 
and I was lost, wandering aimless and alone, 
searching for nothing. I wanted to kick myself for the 
stupid field trip last week. I shoved the dream out of 
my conscious mind, hoping it would stay locked up 
somewhere and not escape again. 

Charlie was outside washing the cruiser, so when the 
phone rang, I dropped the toilet brush and ran 
downstairs to answer it. 

“Hello?” I asked breathlessly. 

“Bella,” Jacob said, a strange, formal tone to his 
voice. 

“Hey, Jake.” 

“I believe that... we have a date,” he said, his tone 
thick with implications. 

171 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It took me a second before I got it. “They’re done? I 
can’t believe it!” What perfect timing. I needed 
something to distract me from nightmares and 
nothingness. 

“Yeah, they run and everything.” 

“Jacob, you are absolutely, without a doubt, the most 
talented and wonderful person I know. You get ten 
years for this one.” 

“Cool! I’m middle-aged now.” 

I laughed. “I’m on my way up!” 

I threw the cleaning supplies under the bathroom 
counter and grabbed my jacket. 

“Headed to see Jake,” Charlie said when I ran past 
him. It wasn’t really a question. 

“Yep,” I replied as I jumped in my truck. 

“I’ll be at the station later,” Charlie called after me. 

“Okay,” I yelled back, turning the key. 

Charlie said something else, but I couldn’t hear him 
clearly over the roar of the engine. It sounded sort of 
like, “Where’s the fire?” 

I parked my truck off to the side of the Blacks’ house, 
close to the trees, to make it easier for us to sneak the 
bikes out. When I got out, a splash of color caught my 
eye — two shiny motorcycles, one red, one black, were 
hidden under a spruce, invisible from the house. 
Jacob was prepared. 



172 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




There was a piece of blue ribbon tied in a small bow 
around each of the handlebars. I was laughing at that 
when Jacob ran out of the house. 

“Ready?” he asked in a low voice, his eyes sparkling. 

I glanced over his shoulder, and there was no sign of 
Billy. 

“Yeah,” I said, but I didn’t feel quite as excited as 
before; I was trying to imagine myself actually on the 
motorcycle. 

Jacob loaded the bikes into the bed of the truck with 
ease, laying them carefully on their sides so they 
didn’t show. 

“Let’s go,” he said, his voice higher than usual with 
excitement. “I know the perfect spot — no one will 
catch us there.” 

We drove south out of town. The dirt road wove in 
and out of the forest — sometimes there was nothing 
but trees, and then there would suddenly be a 
breathtaking glimpse of the Pacific Ocean, reaching to 
the horizon, dark gray under the clouds. We were 
above the shore, on top of the cliffs that bordered the 
beach here, and the view seemed to stretch on 
forever. 

I was driving slowly, so that I could safely stare out 
across the ocean now and then, as the road wound 
closer to the sea cliffs. Jacob was talking about 
finishing the bikes, but his descriptions were getting 
technical, so I wasn’t paying close attention. 

That was when I noticed four figures standing on a 
rocky ledge, much too close to the precipice. I couldn’t 
tell from the distance how old they were, but I 

173 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




assumed they were men. Despite the chill in the air 
today, they seemed to be wearing only shorts. 

As I watched, the tallest person stepped closer to the 
brink. I slowed automatically, my foot hesitating over 
the brake pedal. 

And then he threw himself off the edge. 

“No!” I shouted, stomping down on the brake. 

“What’s wrong?” Jacob shouted back, alarmed. 

“That guy — he just jumped off the cliff! Why didn’t 
they stop him? We’ve got to call an ambulance!” I 
threw open my door and started to get out, which 
made no sense at all. The fastest way to a phone was 
to drive back to Billy’s. But I couldn’t believe what I’d 
just seen. Maybe, subconsciously, I hoped I would see 
something different without the glass of the 
windshield in the way. 

Jacob laughed, and I spun to stare at him wildly. How 
could he be so calloused, so cold-blooded? 

“They’re just cliff diving, Bella. Recreation. La Push 
doesn’t have a mall, you know.” He was teasing, but 
there was a strange note of irritation in his voice. 

“Cliff diving?” I repeated, dazed. I stared in disbelief 
as a second figure stepped to the edge, paused, and 
then very gracefully leaped into space. He fell for what 
seemed like an eternity to me, finally cutting smoothly 
into the dark gray waves below. 

“Wow. It’s so high.” I slid back into my seat, still 
staring wide-eyed at the two remaining divers. “It 
must be a hundred feet.” 



174 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, yeah, most of us jump from lower down, that 
rock that juts out from the cliff about halfway.” He 
pointed out his window. The place he indicated did 
seem much more reasonable. “Those guys are insane. 
Probably showing off how tough they are. I mean, 
really, it’s freezing today. That water can’t feel good.” 
He made a disgruntled face, as if the stunt personally 
offended him. It surprised me a little. I would have 
thought Jacob was nearly impossible to upset. 

“You jump off the cliff?” I hadn’t missed the “us.” 

“Sure, sure.” He shrugged and grinned. “It’s fun. A 
little scary, kind of a rush.” 

I looked back at the cliffs, where the third figure was 
pacing the edge. I’d never witnessed anything so 
reckless in all my life. My eyes widened, and I smiled. 
“Jake, you have to take me cliff diving.” 

He frowned back at me, his face disapproving. “Bella, 
you just wanted to call an ambulance for Sam,” he 
reminded me. I was surprised that he could tell who it 
was from this distance. 

“I want to try,” I insisted, starting to get out of the car 
again. 

Jacob grabbed my wrist. “Not today, all right? Can we 
at least wait for a warmer day?” 

“Okay, fine,” I agreed. With the door open, the glacial 
breeze was raising goose bumps on my arm. “But I 
want to go soon.” 

“Soon.” He rolled his eyes. “Sometimes you’re a little 
strange, Bella. Do you know that?” 



I sighed. “Yes.” 

175 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“And we’re not jumping off the top.” 



I watched, fascinated, as the third boy made a 
running start and flung himself farther into the empty 
air than the other two. He twisted and cartwheeled 
through space as he fell, like he was skydiving. He 
looked absolutely free — unthinking and utterly 
irresponsible. 

“Fine,” I agreed. “Not the first time, anyway.” 

Now Jacob sighed. 

“Are we going to try out the bikes or not?” he 
demanded. 

“Okay, okay,” I said, tearing my eyes away from the 
last person waiting on the cliff. I put my seat belt 
back on and closed the door. The engine was still 
running, roaring as it idled. We started down the road 
again. 

“So who were those guys — the crazy ones?” I 
wondered. 

He made a disgusted sound in the back of his throat. 
“The La Push gang.” 

“You have a gang?” I asked. I realized that I sounded 
impressed. 

He laughed once at my reaction. “Not like that. I 
swear, they’re like hall monitors gone bad. They don’t 
start fights, they keep the peace.” He snorted. “There 
was this guy from up somewhere by the Makah rez, 
big guy too, scary-looking. Well, word got around that 
he was selling meth to kids, and Sam Uley and his 
disciples ran him off our land. They’re all about our 
land, and tribe pride... it’s getting ridiculous. The 
176 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




worst part is that the council takes them seriously. 
Embry said that the council actually meets with 
Sam.” He shook his head, face full of resentment. 
“Embry also heard from Leah Clearwater that they 
call themselves ‘protectors’ or something like that.” 

Jacob’s hands were clenched into fists, as if he’d like 
to hit something. I’d never seen this side of him. 

I was surprised to hear Sam Uley’s name. I didn’t 
want it to bring back the images from my nightmare, 
so I made a quick observation to distract myself. “You 
don’t like them very much.” 

“Does it show?” he asked sarcastically. 

“Well... It doesn’t sound like they’re doing anything 
bad.” I tried to soothe him, to make him cheerful 
again. “Just sort of annoyingly goody-two-shoes for a 
gang.” 

“Yeah. Annoying is a good word. They’re always 
showing off — like the cliff thing. They act like... like, I 
don’t know. Like tough guys. I was hanging out at the 
store with Embry and Quil once, last semester, and 
Sam came by with his followers, Jared and Paul. Quil 
said something, you know how he’s got a big mouth, 
and it pissed Paul off. His eyes got all dark, and he 
sort of smiled — no, he showed his teeth but he didn’t 
smile — and it was like he was so mad he was shaking 
or something. But Sam put his hand against Paul’s 
chest and shook his head. Paul looked at him for a 
minute and calmed down. Honestly, it was like Sam 
was holding him back — like Paul was going to tear us 
up if Sam didn’t stop him.” He groaned. “Like a bad 
western. You know, Sam’s a pretty big guy, he’s 
twenty. But Paul’s just sixteen, too, shorter than me 
and not as beefy as Quil. I think any one of us could 
take him.” 

177 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Tough guys,” I agreed. I could see it in my head as he 
described it, and it reminded me of something... a trio 
of tall, dark men standing very still and close together 
in my father’s living room. The picture was sideways, 
because my head was lying against the couch while 
Dr. Gerandy and Charlie leaned over me.... Had that 
been Sam’s gang? 

I spoke quickly again to divert myself from the bleak 
memories. “Isn’t Sam a little too old for this kind of 
thing?” 

“Yeah. He was supposed to go to college, but he 
stayed. And no one gave him any crap about it, either. 
The whole council pitched a fit when my sister turned 
down a partial scholarship and got married. But, oh 
no, Sam Uley can do no wrong.” 

His face was set in unfamiliar lines of outrage — 
outrage and something else I didn’t recognize at first. 

“It all sounds really annoying and... strange. But I 
don’t get why you’re taking it so personally.” I peeked 
over at his face, hoping I hadn’t offended him. He was 
suddenly calm, staring out the side window. 

“You just missed the turn,” he said in an even voice. 

I executed a very wide U-turn, nearly hitting a tree as 
my circle ran the truck halfway off the road. 

“Thanks for the heads-up,” I muttered as I started up 
the side road. 

“Sorry, I wasn’t paying attention.” 

It was quiet for a brief minute. 

“You can stop anywhere along here,” he said softly. 

178 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I pulled over and cut the engine. My ears rang in the 
silence that followed. We both got out, and Jacob 
headed around to the back to get the bikes. I tried to 
read his expression. Something more was bothering 
him. I’d hit a nerve. 

He smiled halfheartedly as he pushed the red bike to 
my side. “Happy late birthday. Are you ready for 
this?” 

“I think so.” The bike suddenly looked intimidating, 
frightening, as I realized I would soon be astride it. 

“Well take it slow,” he promised. I gingerly leaned the 
motorcycle against the truck’s fender while he went to 
get his. 

“Jake . . .” I hesitated as he came back around the 
truck. 

“Yeah?” 

“What’s really bothering you? About the Sam thing, I 
mean? Is there something else?” I watched his face. 

He grimaced, but he didn’t seem angry. He looked at 
the dirt and kicked his shoe against the front tire of 
his bike again and again, like he was keeping time. 

He sighed. “It’s just... the way they treat me. It creeps 
me out.” The words started to rush out now. “You 
know, the council is supposed to be made up of 
equals, but if there was a leader, it would be my dad. 
I’ve never been able to figure out why people treat him 
the way they do. Why his opinion counts the most. 

It’s got something to do with his father and his 
father’s father. My great-grandpa, Ephraim Black, 
was sort of the last chief we had, and they still listen 
to Billy, maybe because of that. 



179 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“But I’m just like everyone else. Nobody treats me 
special... until now.” 



That caught me off guard. “Sam treats you special?” 

“Yeah,” he agreed, looking up at me with troubled 
eyes. “He looks at me like he’s waiting for 
something... like I’m going to join his stupid gang 
someday. He pays more attention to me than any of 
the other guys. I hate it.” 

“You don’t have to join anything.” My voice was angry. 
This was really upsetting Jacob, and that infuriated 
me. Who did these “protectors” think they were? 

“Yeah.” His foot kept up its rhythm against the tire. 

“What?” I could tell there was more. 

He frowned, his eyebrows pulling up in a way that 
looked sad and worried rather than angry. “It’s 
Embry. He’s been avoiding me lately.” 

The thoughts didn’t seem connected, but I wondered 
if I was to blame for the problems with his friend. 
“You’ve been hanging out with me a lot,” I reminded 
him, feeling selfish. I’d been monopolizing him. 

“No, that’s not it. It’s not just me — it’s Quil, too, and 
everyone. Embry missed a week of school, but he was 
never home when we tried to see him. And when he 
came back, he looked... he looked freaked out. 
Terrified. Quil and I both tried to get him to tell us 
what was wrong, but he wouldn’t talk to either one of 
us.” 



I stared at Jacob, biting my lip anxiously — he was 
really frightened. But he didn’t look at me. He 



180 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




watched his own foot kicking the rubber as if it 
belonged to someone else. The tempo increased. 

“Then this week, out of nowhere, Embry’s hanging out 
with Sam and the rest of them. He was out on the 
cliffs today.” His voice was low and tense. 

He finally looked at me. “Bella, they bugged him even 
more than they bother me. He didn’t want anything to 
do with them. And now Embry’s following Sam 
around like he’s joined a cult. 

“And that’s the way it was with Paul. Just exactly the 
same. He wasn’t friends with Sam at all. Then he 
stopped coming to school for a few weeks, and, when 
he came back, suddenly Sam owned him. I don’t 
know what it means. I can’t figure it out, and I feel 
like I have to, because Embry’s my friend and... Sam’s 
looking at me funny... and . . .” He trailed off. 

“Have you talked to Billy about this?” I asked. His 
horror was spreading to me. I had chills running on 
the back of my neck. 

Now there was anger on his face. “Yes,” he snorted. 
“That was helpful.” 

“What did he say?” 

Jacob’s expression was sarcastic, and when he spoke, 
his voice mocked the deep tones of his father’s voice. 
“It’s nothing you need to worry about now, Jacob. In a 
few years, if you don’t... well, I’ll explain later.” And 
then his voice was his own. “What am I supposed to 
get from that? Is he trying to say it’s some stupid 
puberty, coming-of-age thing? This is something else. 
Something wrong.” 



181 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He was biting his lower lip and clenching his hands. 
He looked like he was about to cry. 



I threw my arms around him instinctively, wrapping 
them around his waist and pressing my face against 
his chest. He was so big, I felt like I was a child 
hugging a grown-up. 

“Oh, Jake, it’ll be okay!” I promised. “If it gets worse 
you can come live with me and Charlie. Don’t be 
scared, we’ll think of something!” 

He was frozen for a second, and then his long arms 
wrapped hesitantly around me. “Thanks, Bella.” His 
voice was huskier than usual. 

We stood like that for a moment, and it didn’t upset 
me; in fact, I felt comforted by the contact. This didn’t 
feel anything like the last time someone had 
embraced me this way. This was friendship. And 
Jacob was very warm. 

It was strange for me, being this close — emotionally 
rather than physically, though the physical was 
strange for me, too — to another human being. It 
wasn’t my usual style. I didn’t normally relate to 
people so easily, on such a basic level. 

Not human beings. 

“If this is how you’re going to react, I’ll freak out more 
often.” Jacob’s voice was light, normal again, and his 
laughter rumbled against my ear. His fingers touched 
my hair, soft and tentative. 

Well, it was friendship for me. 

I pulled away quickly, laughing with him, but 
determined to put things back in perspective at once. 

182 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s hard to believe I’m two years older than you,” I 
said, emphasizing the word older. “You make me feel 
like a dwarf.” Standing this close to him, I really had 
to crane my neck to see his face. 

“You’re forgetting I’m in my forties, of course.” 

“Oh, that’s right.” 

He patted my head. “You’re like a little doll,” he 
teased. “A porcelain doll.” 

I rolled my eyes, taking another step away. “Let’s not 
start with the albino cracks.” 

“Seriously, Bella, are you sure you’re not?” He 
stretched his russet arm out next to mine. The 
difference wasn’t flattering. “I’ve never seen anyone 
paler than you... well, except for — ” He broke off, and I 
looked away, trying to not understand what he had 
been about to say. 

“So are we going to ride or what?” 

“Let’s do it,” I agreed, more enthusiastic than I would 
have been half a minute ago. His unfinished sentence 
reminded me of why I was here. 



183 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




ADRENALINE 



“Okay, where's your clutch?” 

I pointed to the lever on my left handlebar. Letting go 
of the grip was a mistake. The heavy bike wobbled 
underneath me, threatening to knock me sidewise. I 
grabbed the handle again, trying to hold it straight. 

“Jacob, it won’t stay up,” I complained. 

“It will when you’re moving,” he promised. “Now 
where’s your brake?” 

“Behind my right foot.” 

“Wrong.” 

He grabbed my right hand and curled my fingers 
around the lever over the throttle. 

“But you said — ” 

“This is the brake you want. Don’t use the back brake 
now, that’s for later, when you know what you’re 
doing.” 

“That doesn’t sound right,” I said suspiciously. “Aren’t 
both brakes kind of important?” 

“Forget the back brake, okay? Here — ” He wrapped his 
hand around mine and made me squeeze the lever 
down. “That is how you brake. Don’t forget.” He 
squeezed my hand another time. 

“Fine,” I agreed. 

184 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Throttle?” 



I twisted the right grip. 

“Gearshift?” 

I nudged it with my left calf. 

“Very good. I think you’ve got all the parts down. Now 
you just have to get it moving.” 

“Uh-huh,” I muttered, afraid to say more. My stomach 
was contorting strangely and I thought my voice 
might crack. I was terrified. I tried to tell myself that 
the fear was pointless. I’d already lived through the 
worst thing possible. In comparison with that, why 
should anything frighten me now? I should be able to 
look death in the face and laugh. 

My stomach wasn’t buying it. 

I stared down the long stretch of dirt road, bordered 
by thick misty green on every side. The road was 
sandy and damp. Better than mud. 

“I want you to hold down the clutch,” Jacob 
instructed. 

I wrapped my fingers around the clutch. 

“Now this is crucial, Bella,” Jacob stressed. “Don’t let 
go of that, okay? I want you to pretend that I’ve 
handed you a live grenade. The pin is out and you are 
holding down the spoon.” 

I squeezed tighter. 

“Good. Do you think you can kick-start it?” 



185 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“If I move my foot, I will fall over,” I told him through 
gritted teeth, my fingers tight around my live grenade. 

“Okay, I’ll do it. Don’t let go of the clutch.” 

He took a step back, and then suddenly slammed his 
foot down on the pedal. There was a short ripping 
noise, and the force of his thrust rocked the bike. I 
started to fall sideways, but Jake caught the bike 
before it knocked me to the ground. 

“Steady there,” he encouraged. “Do you still have the 
clutch?” 

“Yes,” I gasped. 

“Plant your feet — I’m going to try again.” But he put 
his hand on the back of the seat, too, just to be safe. 

It took four more kicks before the ignition caught. I 
could feel the bike rumbling beneath me like an angry 
animal. I gripped the clutch until my fingers ached. 

“Try out the throttle,” he suggested. “Very lightly. And 
don’t let go of the clutch.” 

Hesitantly, I twisted the right handle. Though the 
movement was tiny, the bike snarled beneath me. It 
sounded angry and hungry now. Jacob smiled in deep 
satisfaction. 

“Do you remember how to put it into first gear?” he 
asked. 

“Yes.” 

“Well, go ahead and do it.” 

“Okay.” 

186 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He waited for a few seconds. 

“Left foot,” he prompted. 

“I know,” I said, taking a deep breath. 

“Are you sure you want to do this?” Jacob asked. 

“You look scared.” 

“I’m fine,” I snapped. I kicked the gearshift down one 
notch. 

“Very good,” he praised me. “Now, very gently, ease up 
on the clutch.” 

He took a step away from the bike. 

“You want me to let go of the grenade?” I asked in 
disbelief. No wonder he was moving back. 

“That’s how you move, Bella. Just do it little by little.” 

As I began to loosen my grip, I was shocked to be 
interrupted by a voice that did not belong to the boy 
standing next to me. 

“This is reckless and childish and idiotic, Bella,” the 
velvet voice fumed. 

“Oh!” I gasped, and my hand fell off the clutch. 

The bike bucked under me, yanking me forward and 
then collapsing to the ground half on top of me. The 
growling engine choked to a stop. 

“Bella?” Jacob jerked the heavy bike off me with ease. 
“Are you hurt?” 



But I wasn’t listening. 

187 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I told you so,” the perfect voice murmured, crystal 
clear. 

“Bella?” Jacob shook my shoulder. 

“I’m fine,” I mumbled, dazed. 

More than fine. The voice in my head was back. It still 
rang in my ears — soft, velvety echoes. 

My mind ran swiftly through the possibilities. There 
was no familiarity here — on a road I’d never seen, 
doing something I’d never done before — no deja vu. So 
the hallucinations must be triggered by something 
else.... I felt the adrenaline coursing through my veins 
again, and I thought I had the answer. Some 
combination of adrenaline and danger, or maybe just 
stupidity. 

Jacob was pulling me to my feet. 

“Did you hit your head?” he asked. 

“I don’t think so.” I shook it back and forth, checking. 
“I didn’t hurt the bike, did I?” This thought worried 
me. I was anxious to try again, right away. Being 
reckless was paying off better than I’d thought. Forget 
cheating. Maybe I’d found a way to generate the 
hallucinations — that was much more important. 

“No. You just stalled the engine,” Jacob said, 
interrupting my quick speculations. “You let go of the 
clutch too fast.” 

I nodded. “Let’s try again.” 

“Are you sure?” Jacob asked. 

“Positive.” 

188 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




This time I tried to get the kick-start myself. It was 
complicated; I had to jump a little to slam down on 
the pedal with enough force, and every time I did that, 
the bike tried to knock me over. Jacob’s hand hovered 
over the handlebars, ready to catch me if I needed 
him. 

It took several good tries, and even more poor tries, 
before the engine caught and roared to life under me. 
Remembering to hold on to the grenade, I revved the 
throttle experimentally. It snarled at the slightest 
touch. My smile mirrored Jacob’s now. 

“Easy on the clutch,” he reminded me. 

“Do you want to kill yourself, then? Is that what this 
is about?” the other voice spoke again, his tone 
severe. 

I smiled tightly — it was still working — and ignored the 
questions. Jacob wasn’t going to let anything serious 
happen to me. 

“Go home to Charlie,” the voice ordered. The sheer 
beauty of it amazed me. I couldn’t allow my memory 
to lose it, no matter the price. 

“Ease off slowly,” Jacob encouraged me. 

“I will,” I said. It bothered me a bit when I realized I 
was answering both of them. 

The voice in my head growled against the roar of the 
motorcycle. 

Trying to focus this time, to not let the voice startle 
me again, I relaxed my hand by tiny degrees. 
Suddenly, the gear caught and wrenched me forward. 



189 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




And I was flying. 

There was wind that wasn’t there before, blowing my 
skin against my skull and flinging my hair back 
behind me with enough force that it felt like someone 
was tugging on it. I’d left my stomach back at the 
starting point; the adrenaline coursed through my 
body, tingling in my veins. The trees raced past me, 
blurring into a wall of green. 

But this was only first gear. My foot itched toward the 
gearshift as I twisted for more gas. 

“No, Bella!” the angry, honey-sweet voice ordered in 
my ear. “Watch what you’re doing!” 

It distracted me enough from the speed to realize that 
the road was starting a slow curve to the left, and I 
was still going straight. Jacob hadn’t told me how to 
turn. 

“Brakes, brakes,” I muttered to myself, and I 
instinctively slammed down with my right foot, like I 
would in my truck. 

The bike was suddenly unstable underneath me, 
shivering first to one side and then the other. It was 
dragging me toward the green wall, and I was going 
too fast. I tried to turn the handlebar the other 
direction, and the sudden shift of my weight pushed 
the bike toward the ground, still spinning toward the 
trees. 

The motorcycle landed on top of me again, roaring 
loudly, pulling me across the wet sand until it hit 
something stationary. I couldn’t see. My face was 
mashed into the moss. I tried to lift my head, but 
there was something in the way. 



190 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I was dizzy and confused. It sounded like there were 
three things snarling — the bike over me, the voice in 
my head, and something else.... 

“Bella!” Jacob yelled, and I heard the roar of the other 
bike cut off. 

The motorcycle no longer pinned me to the ground, 
and I rolled over to breathe. All the growling went 
silent. 

“Wow,” I murmured. I was thrilled. This had to be it, 
the recipe for a hallucination — adrenaline plus danger 
plus stupidity. Something close to that, anyway. 

“Bella!” Jacob was crouching over me anxiously. 
“Bella, are you alive?” 

“I’m great!” I enthused. I flexed my arms and legs. 
Everything seemed to be working correctly. “Let’s do it 
again.” 

“I don’t think so.” Jacob still sounded worried. “I 
think I’d better drive you to the hospital first.” 

“I’m fine.” 

“Um, Bella? You’ve got a huge cut on your forehead, 
and it’s gushing blood,” he informed me. 

I clapped my hand over my head. Sure enough, it was 
wet and sticky. I could smell nothing but the damp 
moss on my face, and that held off the nausea. 

“Oh, I’m so sorry, Jacob.” I pushed hard against the 
gash, as if I could force the blood back inside my 
head. 



191 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why are you apologizing for bleeding?” he wondered 
as he wrapped a long arm around my waist and 
pulled me to my feet. “Let’s go. I’ll drive.” He held out 
his hand for the keys. 

“What about the bikes?” I asked, handing them over. 

He thought for a second. “Wait here. And take this.” 
He pulled off his T-shirt, already spotted with blood, 
and threw it to me. I wadded it up and held it tightly 
to my forehead. I was starting to smell the blood; I 
breathed deeply through my mouth and tried to 
concentrate on something else. 

Jacob jumped on the black motorcycle, kicked it to a 
start in one try, and raced back down the road, 
spraying sand and pebbles behind him. He looked 
athletic and professional as he leaned over the 
handlebars, head low, face forward, his shiny hair 
whipping against the russet skin of his back. My eyes 
narrowed enviously. I was sure I hadn’t looked like 
that on my motorcycle. 

I was surprised at how far I’d gone. I could barely see 
Jacob in the distance when he finally got to the truck. 
He threw the bike into the bed and sprinted to the 
driver’s side. 

I really didn’t feel bad at all as he coaxed my truck to 
a deafening roar in his hurry to get back to me. My 
head stung a little, and my stomach was uneasy, but 
the cut wasn’t serious. Head wounds just bled more 
than most. His urgency wasn’t necessary. 

Jacob left the truck running as he raced back to me, 
wrapping his arm around my waist again. 

“Okay, let’s get you in the truck.” 



192 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm honestly fine,” I assured him as he helped me in. 
“Don’t get worked up. It’s just a little blood.” 

“Just a lot of blood,” I heard him mutter as he went 
back for my bike. 

“Now, let’s think about this for a second,” I began 
when he got back in. “If you take me to the ER like 
this, Charlie is sure to hear about it.” I glanced down 
at the sand and dirt caked into my jeans. 

“Bella, I think you need stitches. I’m not going to let 
you bleed to death.” 

“I won’t,” I promised. “Let’s just take the bikes back 
first, and then we’ll make a stop at my house so I can 
dispose of the evidence before we go to the hospital.” 

“What about Charlie?” 

“He said he had to work today.” 

“Are you really sure?” 

“Trust me. I’m an easy bleeder. It’s not nearly as dire 
as it looks.” 

Jacob wasn’t happy — his full mouth turned down in 
an uncharacteristic frown — but he didn’t want to get 
me in trouble. I stared out the window, holding his 
ruined shirt to my head, while he drove me to Forks. 

The motorcycle was better than I’d dreamed. It had 
served its original purpose. I’d cheated — broken my 
promise. I’d been needlessly reckless. I felt a little less 
pathetic now that the promises had been broken on 
both sides. 



193 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




And then to discover the key to the hallucinations! At 
least, I hoped I had. I was going to test the theory as 
soon as possible. Maybe they’d get through with me 
quickly in the ER, and I could try again tonight. 

Racing down the road like that had been amazing. 
The feel of the wind in my face, the speed and the 
freedom... it reminded me of a past life, flying through 
the thick forest without a road, piggyback while he 
ran — I stopped thinking right there, letting the 
memory break off in the sudden agony. I flinched. 

“You still okay?” Jacob checked. 

“Yeah.” I tried to sound as convincing as before. 

“By the way,” he added. “I’m going to disconnect your 
foot brake tonight.” 

At home, I went to look at myself in the mirror first 
thing; it was pretty gruesome. Blood was drying in 
thick streaks across my cheek and neck, matting in 
my muddy hair. I examined myself clinically, 
pretending the blood was paint so it wouldn’t upset 
my stomach. I breathed through my mouth, and was 
fine. 

I washed up as well as I could. Then I hid my dirty, 
bloody clothes in the bottom of my laundry basket, 
putting on new jeans and a button-up shirt (that I 
didn’t have to pull over my head) as carefully as I 
could. I managed to do this one-handed and keep 
both garments blood-free. 

“Hurry up,” Jacob called. 

“Okay, okay,” I shouted back. After making sure I left 
nothing incriminating behind me, I headed 
downstairs. 

194 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“How do I look?” I asked him. 



“Better,” he admitted. 

“But do I look like I tripped in your garage and hit my 
head on a hammer?” 

“Sure, I guess so.” 

“Let’s go then.” 

Jacob hurried me out the door, and insisted on 
driving again. We were halfway to the hospital when I 
realized he was still shirtless. 

I frowned guiltily. “We should have grabbed you a 
jacket.” 

“That would have given us away,” he teased. “Besides, 
it’s not cold.” 

“Are you kidding?” I shivered and reached out to turn 
the heat on. 

I watched Jacob to see if he was just playing tough so 
I wouldn’t worry, but he looked comfortable enough. 
He had one arm over the back of my seat, though I 
was huddled up to keep warm. 

Jacob really did look older than sixteen — not quite 
forty, but maybe older than me. Quil didn’t have too 
much on him in the muscle department, for all that 
Jacob claimed to be a skeleton. The muscles were the 
long wiry kind, but they were definitely there under 
the smooth skin. His skin was such a pretty color, it 
made me jealous. 

Jacob noticed my scrutiny. 



195 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What?” he asked, suddenly self-conscious. 



“Nothing. I just hadn’t realized before. Did you know, 
you’re sort of beautiful?” 

Once the words slipped out, I worried that he might 
take my impulsive observation the wrong way. 

But Jacob just rolled his eyes. “You hit your head 
pretty hard, didn’t you?” 

“I’m serious.” 

“Well, then, thanks. Sort of.” 

I grinned. “You’re sort of welcome.” 

I had to have seven stitches to close the cut on my 
forehead. After the sting of the local anesthetic, there 
was no pain in the procedure. Jacob held my hand 
while Dr. Snow was sewing, and I tried not to think 
about why that was ironic. 

We were at the hospital forever. By the time I was 
done, I had to drop Jacob off at his home and hurry 
back to cook dinner for Charlie. Charlie seemed to 
buy my story about falling in Jacob’s garage. After all, 
it wasn’t like I hadn’t been able to land myself in the 
ER before with no more help than my own feet. 

This night was not as bad as that first night, after I’d 
heard the perfect voice in Port Angeles. The hole came 
back, the way it always did when I was away from 
Jacob, but it didn’t throb so badly around the edges. I 
was already planning ahead, looking forward to more 
delusions, and that was a distraction. Also, I knew I 
would feel better tomorrow when I was with Jacob 
again. That made the empty hole and the familiar 
pain easier to bear; relief was in sight. The nightmare, 
196 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




too, had lost a little of its potency. I was horrified by 
the nothingness, as always, but I was also strangely 
impatient as I waited for the moment that would send 
me screaming into consciousness. I knew the 
nightmare had to end. 

The next Wednesday, before I could get home from 
the ER, Dr. Gerandy called to warn my father that I 
might possibly have a concussion and advised him to 
wake me up every two hours through the night to 
make sure it wasn’t serious. Charlie’s eyes narrowed 
suspiciously at my weak explanation about tripping 
again. 

“Maybe you should just stay out of the garage 
altogether, Bella,” he suggested that night during 
dinner. 

I panicked, worried that Charlie was about to lay 
down some kind of edict that would prohibit La Push, 
and consequently my motorcycle. And I wasn’t giving 
it up — I’d had the most amazing hallucination today. 
My velvet-voiced delusion had yelled at me for almost 
five minutes before I’d hit the brake too abruptly and 
launched myself into the tree. I’d take whatever pain 
that would cause me tonight without complaint. 

“This didn’t happen in the garage,” I protested 
quickly. “We were hiking, and I tripped over a rock.” 

“Since when do you hike?” Charlie asked skeptically. 

“Working at Newton’s was bound to rub off 
sometime,” I pointed out. “Spend every day selling all 
the virtues of the outdoors, eventually you get 
curious.” 

Charlie glared at me, unconvinced. 



197 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll be more careful,” I promised, surreptitiously 
crossing my fingers under the table. 

“I don’t mind you hiking right there around La Push, 
but keep close to town, okay?” 

“Why?” 

“Well, we’ve been getting a lot of wildlife complaints 
lately. The forestry department is going to check into 
it, but for the time being ...” 

“Oh, the big bear,” I said with sudden comprehension. 
“Yeah, some of the hikers coming through Newton’s 
have seen it. Do you think there’s really some giant 
mutated grizzly out there?” 

His forehead creased. “There’s something. Keep it 
close to town, okay?” 

“Sure, sure,” I said quickly. He didn’t look completely 
appeased. 

“Charlie’s getting nosy,” I complained to Jacob when I 
picked him up after school Friday. 

“Maybe we should cool it with the bikes.” He saw my 
objecting expression and added, “At least for a week 
or so. You could stay out of the hospital for a week, 
right?” 

“What are we going to do?” I griped. 

He smiled cheerfully. “What ever you want.” 

I thought about that for a minute — about what I 
wanted. 



198 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I hated the idea of losing even my brief seconds of 
closeness with the memories that didn’t hurt — the 
ones that came on their own, without me thinking of 
them consciously. If I couldn’t have the bikes, I was 
going to have to find some other avenue to the danger 
and the adrenaline, and that was going to take 
serious thought and creativity. Doing nothing in the 
meantime was not appealing. Suppose I got depressed 
again, even with Jake? I had to keep occupied. 

Maybe there was some other way, some other recipe... 
some other place. 

The house had been a mistake, certainly. But his 
presence must be stamped somewhere, somewhere 
other than inside me. There had to be a place where 
he seemed more real than among all the familiar 
landmarks that were crowded with other human 
memories. 

I could think of one place where that might hold true. 
One place that would always belong to him and no 
one else. A magic place, full of light. The beautiful 
meadow I’d seen only once in my life, lit by sunshine 
and the sparkle of his skin. 

This idea had a huge potential for backfiring — it might 
be dangerously painful. My chest ached with 
emptiness even to think of it. It was hard to hold 
myself upright, to not give myself away. But surely, 
there of all places, I could hear his voice. And I 
already told Charlie I was hiking.... 

“What are you thinking about so hard?” Jacob asked. 

“Well...,” I began slowly. “I found this place in the 
forest once — I came across it when I was, um, hiking. 
A little meadow, the most beautiful place. I don’t 



199 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




know if I could track it down again on my own. It 
would definitely take a few tries....” 

“We could use a compass and a grid pattern,” Jacob 
said with confident helpfulness. “Do you know where 
you started from?” 

“Yes, just below the trailhead where the one-ten ends. 
I was going mostly south, I think.” 

“Cool. We’ll find it.” As always, Jacob was game for 
anything I wanted. No matter how strange it was. 

So, Saturday afternoon, I tied on my new hiking 
boots — purchased that morning using my twenty- 
percent-off employee discount for the first time — 
grabbed my new topographical map of the Olympic 
Peninsula, and drove to La Push. 

We didn’t get started immediately; first, Jacob 
sprawled across the living room floor — taking up the 
whole room — and, for a full twenty minutes, drew a 
complicated web across the key section of the map 
while I perched on a kitchen chair and talked to Billy. 
Billy didn’t seem at all concerned about our proposed 
hiking trip. I was surprised that Jacob had told him 
where we were going, given the fuss people were 
making about the bear sightings. I wanted to ask Billy 
not to say anything about this to Charlie, but I was 
afraid that making the request would cause the 
opposite result. 

“Maybe we’ll see the super bear,” Jacob joked, eyes on 
his design. 

I glanced at Billy swiftly, fearing a Charlie-style 
reaction. 



200 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




But Billy just laughed at his son. “Maybe you should 
take ajar of honey, just in case.” 



Jake chuckled. “Hope your new boots are fast, Bella. 
One little jar isn’t going to keep a hungry bear 
occupied for long.” 

“I only have to be faster than you.” 

“Good luck with that!” Jacob said, rolling his eyes as 
he refolded the map. “Let’s go.” 

“Have fun,” Billy rumbled, wheeling himself toward 
the refrigerator. 

Charlie was not a hard person to live with, but it 
looked to me like Jacob had it even easier than I did. 

I drove to the very end of the dirt road, stopping near 
the sign that marked the beginning of the trailhead. It 
had been a long time since I’d been here, and my 
stomach reacted nervously. This might be a very bad 
thing. But it would be worth it, if I got to hear him. 

I got out and looked at the dense wall of green. 

“I went this way,” I murmured, pointing straight 
ahead. 

“Hmm,” Jake muttered. 

“What?” 

He looked at the direction I’d pointed, then at the 
clearly marked trail, and back. 

“I would have figured you for a trail kind of girl.” 

“Not me.” I smiled bleakly. “I’m a rebel.” 

201 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed, and then pulled out our map. 



“Give me a second.” He held the compass in a skilled 
way, twisting the map around till it angled the way he 
wanted. 

“Okay — first line on the grid. Let’s do it.” 

I could tell that I was slowing Jacob up, but he didn’t 
complain. I tried not to dwell on my last trip through 
this part of the forest, with a very different 
companion. Normal memories were still dangerous. If 
I let myself slip up, I’d end up with my arms clutching 
my chest to hold it together, gasping for air, and how 
would I explain that to Jacob? 

It wasn’t as hard as I would have thought to keep 
focused on the present. The forest looked a lot like 
any other part of the peninsula, and Jacob set a 
vastly different mood. 

He whistled cheerfully, an unfamiliar tune, swinging 
his arms and moving easily through the rough 
undergrowth. The shadows didn’t seem as dark as 
usual. Not with my personal sun along. 

Jacob checked the compass every few minutes, 
keeping us in a straight line with one of the radiating 
spokes of his grid. He really looked like he knew what 
he was doing. I was going to compliment him, but I 
caught myself. No doubt he’d add another few years 
to his inflated age. 

My mind wandered as I walked, and I grew curious. I 
hadn’t forgotten the conversation we’d had by the sea 
cliffs — I’d been waiting for him to bring it up again, 
but it didn’t look like that was going to happen. 

“Hey... Jake?” I asked hesitantly. 

202 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah?” 



“How are things... with Embry? Is he back to normal 
yet?” 

Jacob was silent for a minute, still moving forward 
with long paces. When he was about ten feet ahead, 
he stopped to wait for me. 

“No. He’s not back to normal,” Jacob said when I 
reached him, his mouth pulling down at the corners. 
He didn’t start walking again. I immediately regretted 
bringing it up. 

“Still with Sam.” 

“Yup.” 

He put his arm around my shoulder, and he looked 
so troubled that I didn’t playfully shake it off, as I 
might have otherwise. 

“Are they still looking at you funny?” I half- whispered. 
Jacob stared through the trees. “Sometimes.” 

“And Billy?” 

“As helpful as ever,” he said in a sour, angry voice 
that disturbed me. 

“Our couch is always open,” I offered. 

He laughed, breaking out of the unnatural gloom. 

“But think of the position that would put Charlie in — 
when Billy calls the police to report my kidnapping.” 

I laughed too, glad to have Jacob back to normal. 



203 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




We stopped when Jacob said we’d gone six miles, cut 
west for a short time, and headed back along another 
line of his grid. Everything looked exactly the same as 
the way in, and I had a feeling that my silly quest was 
pretty much doomed. I admitted as much when it 
started to get darker, the sunless day fading toward a 
starless night, but Jacob was more confident. 

“As long as you’re sure we’re starting from the right 
place ...” He glanced down at me. 

“Yes, I’m sure.” 

“Then we’ll find it,” he promised, grabbing my hand 
and pulling me through a mass of ferns. On the other 
side was the truck. He gestured toward it proudly. 
“Trust me.” 

“You’re good,” I admitted. “Next time we bring 
flashlights, though.” 

“Well save hiking for Sundays from now on. I didn’t 
know you were that slow.” 

I yanked my hand back and stomped around to the 
driver’s side while he chuckled at my reaction. 

“So you up for another try tomorrow?” he asked, 
sliding into the passenger seat. 

“Sure. Unless you want to go without me so I don’t tie 
you down to my gimpy pace.” 

“I’ll survive,” he assured me. “If we’re hiking again, 
though, you might want to pick up some moleskin. I 
bet you can feel those new boots right now.” 

“A little,” I confessed. It felt like I had more blisters 
than I had space to fit them. 

204 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I hope we see the bear tomorrow. I’m sort of 
disappointed about that.” 

“Yes, me, too,” I agreed sarcastically. “Maybe well get 
lucky tomorrow and something will eat us!” 

“Bears don’t want to eat people. We don’t taste that 
good.” He grinned at me in the dark cab. “Of course, 
you might be an exception. I bet you’d taste good.” 

“Thanks so much,” I said, looking away. He wasn’t 
the first person to tell me that. 



205 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




THIRD WHEEL 




Time began to trip along much more quickly than 
before. School, work, and Jacob — though not 
necessarily in that order — created a neat and 
effortless pattern to follow. And Charlie got his wish: I 
wasn’t miserable anymore. Of course, I couldn’t fool 
myself completely. When I stopped to take stock of my 
life, which I tried not to do too often, I couldn’t ignore 
the implications of my behavior. 

I was like a lost moon — my planet destroyed in some 
cataclysmic, disaster-movie scenario of desolation — 
that continued, nevertheless, to circle in a tight little 
orbit around the empty space left behind, ignoring the 
laws of gravity. 

I was getting better with my bike, which meant fewer 
bandages to worry Charlie. But it also meant that the 
voice in my head began to fade, until I heard it no 
more. Quietly, I panicked. I threw myself into the 
search for the meadow with slightly frenzied intensity. 
I racked my brain for other adrenaline-producing 
activities. 

I didn’t keep track of the days that passed — there was 
no reason, as I tried to live as much in the present as 
possible, no past fading, no future impending. So I 
was surprised by the date when Jacob brought it up 
on one of our homework days. He was waiting when I 
pulled up in front of his house. 

“Happy Valentine’s Day,” Jacob said, smiling, but 
ducking his head as he greeted me. 



206 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



He held out a small, pink box, balancing it on his 
palm. Conversation hearts. 

“Well, I feel like a schmuck,” I mumbled. “Is today 
Valentine’s Day?” 

Jacob shook his head with mock sadness. “You can 
be so out of it sometimes. Yes, it is the fourteenth day 
of February. So are you going to be my Valentine? 
Since you didn’t get me a fifty-cent box of candy, it’s 
the least you can do.” 

I started to feel uncomfortable. The words were 
teasing, but only on the surface. 

“What exactly does that entail?” I hedged. 

“The usual — slave for life, that kind of thing.” 

“Oh, well, if that’s all ...” I took the candy. But I was 
trying to think of some way to make the boundaries 
clear. Again. They seemed to get blurred a lot with 
Jacob. 

“So, what are we doing tomorrow? Hiking, or the ER?” 

“Hiking,” I decided. “You’re not the only one who can 
be obsessive. I’m starting to think I imagined that 
place....” I frowned into space. 

“Well find it,” he assured me. “Bikes Friday?” he 
offered. 

I saw a chance and took it without taking time to 
think it through. 

“I’m going to a movie Friday. I’ve been promising my 
cafeteria crowd that I would go out forever.” Mike 
would be pleased. 

207 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




But Jacob’s face fell. I caught the expression in his 
dark eyes before he dropped them to look at the 
ground. 

“You’ll come too, right?” I added quickly. “Or will it be 
too much of a drag with a bunch of boring seniors?” 

So much for my chance to put some distance between 
us. I couldn’t stand hurting Jacob; we seemed to be 
connected in an odd way, and his pain set off little 
stabs of my own. Also, the idea of having his company 
for the ordeal — I had promised Mike, but really didn’t 
feel any enthusiasm at the thought of following 
through — was just too tempting. 

“You’d like me to come, with your friends there?” 

“Yes,” I admitted honestly, knowing as I continued 
that I was probably shooting myself in the foot with 
my words. “I’ll have a lot more fun if you’re there. 
Bring Quil, and we’ll make it a party.” 

“Quil’s gonna freak. Senior girls.” He chortled and 
rolled his eyes. I didn’t mention Embry, and neither 
did he. 

I laughed, too. “I’ll try to get him a good selection.” 

I broached the subject with Mike in English. 

“Hey, Mike,” I said when class was over. “Are you free 
Friday night?” 

He looked up, his blue eyes instantly hopeful. “Yeah, I 
am. You want to go out?” 

I worded my reply carefully. “I was thinking about 
getting a group” — I emphasized the word — “together to 
go see Crosshairs.” I’d done my homework this time — 
even reading the movie spoilers to be sure I wouldn’t 

208 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




be caught off guard. This movie was supposed to be a 
bloodbath from start to finish. I wasn’t so recovered 
that I could stand to sit through a romance. “Does 
that sound like fun?” 

“Sure,” he agreed, visibly less eager. 

“Cool.” 

After a second, he perked back up to near his former 
excitement level. “How about we get Angela and Ben? 
Or Eric and Katie?” 

He was determined to make this some kind of double 
date, apparently. 

“How about both?” I suggested. “And Jessica, too, of 
course. And Tyler and Conner, and maybe Lauren,” I 
tacked on grudgingly. I had promised Quil variety. 

“Okay,” Mike muttered, foiled. 

“And,” I continued, “I’ve got a couple of friends from 
La Push I’m inviting. So it sounds like we’ll need your 
Suburban if everyone comes.” 

Mike’s eyes narrowed in suspicion. 

“These are the friends you spend all your time 
studying with now?” 

“Yep, the very ones,” I answered cheerfully. “Though 
you could look at it as tutoring — they’re only 
sophomores.” 

“Oh,” Mike said, surprised. After a second of thought, 
he smiled. 



In the end, though, the Suburban wasn’t necessary. 

209 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jessica and Lauren claimed to be busy as soon as 
Mike let it slip that I was involved in the planning. 
Eric and Katie already had plans — it was their three- 
week anniversary or something. Lauren got to Tyler 
and Conner before Mike could, so those two were also 
busy. Even Quil was out — grounded for fighting at 
school. In the end, only Angela and Ben, and, of 
course Jacob, were able to go. 

The diminished numbers didn’t dampen Mike’s 
anticipation, though. It was all he could talk about 
Friday. 

“Are you sure you don’t want to see Tomorrow and 
Forever instead?” he asked at lunch, naming the 
current romantic comedy that was ruling the box 
office. “Rotten Tomatoes gave it a better review.” 

“I want to see Crosshairs,” I insisted. “I’m in the mood 
for action. Bring on the blood and guts!” 

“Okay.” Mike turned away, but not before I saw his 
maybe-she’s-crazy-after-all expression. 

When I got home from school, a very familiar car was 
parked in front of my house. Jacob was leaning 
against the hood, a huge grin lighting up his face. 

“No way!” I shouted as I jumped out of the truck. 
“You’re done! I can’t believe it! You finished the 
Rabbit!” 

He beamed. “Just last night. This is the maiden 
voyage.” 

“Incredible.” I held my hand up for a high five. 



210 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He smacked his hand against mine, but left it there, 
twisting his fingers through mine. “So do I get to drive 
tonight?” 

“Definitely,” I said, and then I sighed. 

“What’s wrong?” 

“I’m giving up — I can’t top this one. So you win. You’re 
oldest.” 

He shrugged, unsurprised by my capitulation. “Of 
course I am.” 

Mike’s Suburban chugged around the corner. I pulled 
my hand out of Jacob’s, and he made a face that I 
wasn’t meant to see. 

“I remember this guy,” he said in a low voice as Mike 
parked across the street. “The one who thought you 
were his girlfriend. Is he still confused?” 

I raised one eyebrow. “Some people are hard to 
discourage.” 

“Then again,” Jacob said thoughtfully, “sometimes 
persistence pays off.” 

“Most of the time it’s just annoying, though.” 

Mike got out of his car and crossed the road. 

“Hey, Bella,” he greeted me, and then his eyes turned 
wary as he looked up at Jacob. I glanced briefly at 
Jacob, too, trying to be objective. He really didn’t look 
like a sophomore at all. He was just so big — Mike’s 
head barely cleared Jacob’s shoulder; I didn’t even 
want to think where I measured next to him — and 



211 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




then his face was older-looking than it used to be, 
even a month ago. 

“Hey, Mike! Do you remember Jacob Black?” 

“Not really.” Mike held out his hand. 

“Old family friend,” Jacob introduced himself, shaking 
hands. They locked hands with more force than 
necessary. When their grip broke, Mike flexed his 
fingers. 

I heard the phone ringing from the kitchen. 

“I’d better get that — it might be Charlie,” I told them, 
and dashed inside. 

It was Ben. Angela was sick with the stomach flu, and 
he didn’t feel like coming without her. He apologized 
for bailing on us. 

I walked slowly back to the waiting boys, shaking my 
head. I really hoped Angela would feel better soon, 
but I had to admit that I was selfishly upset by this 
development. Just the three of us, Mike and Jacob 
and me, together for the evening — this had worked 
out brilliantly, I thought with grim sarcasm. 

It didn’t seem like Jake and Mike had made any 
progress towards friendship in my absence. They were 
several yards apart, facing away from each other as 
they waited for me; Mike’s expression was sullen, 
though Jacob’s was cheerful as always. 

“Ang is sick,” I told them glumly. “She and Ben aren’t 
coming.” 



212 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I guess the flu is making another round. Austin and 
Conner were out today, too. Maybe we should do this 
another time,” Mike suggested. 

Before I could agree, Jacob spoke. 

“I’m still up for it. But if you’d rather to stay behind, 
Mike—” 

“No, I’m coming,” Mike interrupted. “I was just 
thinking of Angela and Ben. Let’s go.” He started 
toward his Suburban. 

“Hey, do you mind if Jacob drives?” I asked. “I told 
him he could — he just finished his car. He built it 
from scratch, all by himself,” I bragged, proud as a 
PTA mom with a student on the principal’s list. 

“Fine,” Mike snapped. 

“All right, then,” Jacob said, as if that settled 
everything. He seemed more comfortable than anyone 
else. 

Mike climbed in the backseat of the Rabbit with a 
disgusted expression. 

Jacob was his normal sunny self, chattering away 
until I’d all but forgotten Mike sulking silently in the 
back. 

And then Mike changed his strategy. He leaned 
forward, resting his chin on the shoulder of my seat; 
his cheek almost touched mine. I shifted away, 
turning my back toward the window. 

“Doesn’t the radio work in this thing?” Mike asked 
with a hint of petulance, interrupting Jacob mid- 
sentence. 

213 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yes,” Jacob answered. “But Bella doesn’t like music.” 



I stared at Jacob, surprised. I’d never told him that. 
“Bella?” Mike asked, annoyed. 

“He’s right,” I mumbled, still looking at Jacob’s serene 
profile. 

“How can you not like music?” Mike demanded. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. It just irritates me.” 

“Hmph.” Mike leaned away. 

When we got to the theater, Jacob handed me a ten- 
dollar bill. 

“What’s this?” I objected. 

“I’m not old enough to get into this one,” he reminded 
me. 

I laughed out loud. “So much for relative ages. Is Billy 
going to kill me if I sneak you in?” 

“No. I told him you were planning to corrupt my 
youthful innocence.” 

I snickered, and Mike quickened his pace to keep up 
with us. 

I almost wished that Mike had decided to bow out. He 
was still sullen — not much of an addition to the party. 
But I didn’t want to end up on a date alone with 
Jacob, either. That wouldn’t help anything. 

The movie was exactly what it professed to be. In just 
the opening credits, four people got blown up and one 

214 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




got beheaded. The girl in front of me put her hands 
over her eyes and turned her face into her date’s 
chest. He patted her shoulder, and winced 
occasionally, too. Mike didn’t look like he was 
watching. His face was stiff as he glared toward the 
fringe of curtain above the screen. 

I settled in to endure the two hours, watching the 
colors and the movement on the screen rather than 
seeing the shapes of people and cars and houses. But 
then Jacob started sniggering. 

“What?” I whispered. 

“Oh, c’mon!” he hissed back. “The blood squirted 
twenty feet out of that guy. How fake can you get?” 

He chuckled again, as a flagpole speared another man 
into a concrete wall. 

After that, I really watched the show, laughing with 
him as the mayhem got more and more ridiculous. 
How was I ever going to fight the blurring lines in our 
relationship when I enjoyed being with him so much? 

Both Jacob and Mike had claimed the armrests on 
either side of me. Both of their hands rested lightly, 
palms up, in an unnatural looking position. Like steel 
bear traps, open and ready. Jacob was in the habit of 
taking my hand whenever the opportunity presented 
itself, but here in the darkened movie theater, with 
Mike watching, it would have a different 
significance — and I was sure he knew that. I couldn’t 
believe that Mike was thinking the same thing, but 
his hand was placed exactly like Jacob’s. 

I folded my arms tightly across my chest and hoped 
that both their hands fell asleep. 



215 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Mike gave up first. About halfway through the movie, 
he pulled his arm back, and leaned forward to put his 
head in his hands. At first I thought he was reacting 
to something on the screen, but then he moaned. 

“Mike, are you okay?” I whispered. 

The couple in front of us turned to look at him as he 
groaned again. 

“No,” he gasped. “I think I’m sick.” 

I could see the sheen of sweat across his face in the 
light from the screen. 

Mike groaned again, and bolted for the door. I got up 
to follow him, and Jacob copied me immediately. 

“No, stay,” I whispered. “Ill make sure he’s okay.” 

Jacob came with me anyway. 

“You don’t have to come. Get your eight bucks worth 
of carnage,” I insisted as we walked up the aisle. 

“That’s okay. You sure can pick them, Bella. This 
movie really sucks.” His voice rose from a whisper to 
its normal pitch as we walked out of the theater. 

There was no sign of Mike in the hallway, and I was 
glad then that Jacob had come with me — he ducked 
into the men’s bathroom to check for him there. 

Jacob was back in a few seconds. 

“Oh, he’s in there, all right,” he said, rolling his eyes. 
“What a marshmallow. You should hold out for 
someone with a stronger stomach. Someone who 
laughs at the gore that makes weaker men vomit.” 

216 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll keep my eyes open for someone like that.” 



We were all alone in the hallway. Both theaters were 
halfway through the movie, and it was deserted — 
quiet enough for us to hear the popcorn popping at 
the concession counter in the lobby. 

Jacob went to sit on the velveteen-upholstered bench 
against the wall, patting the space beside him. 

“He sounded like he was going to be in there for a 
while,” he said, stretching his long legs out in front of 
him as he settled in to wait. 

I joined him with a sigh. He looked like he was 
thinking about blurring more lines. Sure enough, as 
soon as I sat down, he shifted over to put his arm 
around my shoulders. 

“Jake,” I protested, leaning away. He dropped his 
arm, not looking bothered at all by the minor 
rejection. He reached out and took my hand firmly, 
wrapping his other hand around my wrist when I 
tried to pull away again. Where did he get the 
confidence from? 

“Now, just hold on a minute, Bella,” he said in a calm 
voice. “Tell me something.” 

I grimaced. I didn’t want to do this. Not just not now, 
but not ever. There was nothing left in my life at this 
point that was more important than Jacob Black. But 
he seemed determined to ruin everything. 

“What?” I muttered sourly. 

“You like me, right?” 

“You know I do.” 

217 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Better than that joker puking his guts out in there?” 
He gestured toward the bathroom door. 

“Yes,” I sighed. 

“Better than any of the other guys you know?” He was 
calm, serene — as if my answer didn’t matter, or he 
already knew what it was. 

“Better than the girls, too,” I pointed out. 

“But that’s all,” he said, and it wasn’t a question. 

It was hard to answer, to say the word. Would he get 
hurt and avoid me? How would I stand that? 

“Yes,” I whispered. 

He grinned down at me. “That’s okay, you know. As 
long as you like me the best. And you think I’m good- 
looking — sort of. I’m prepared to be annoyingly 
persistent.” 

“I’m not going to change,” I said, and though I tried to 
keep my voice normal, I could hear the sadness in it. 

His face was thoughtful, no longer teasing. “It’s still 
the other one, isn’t it?” 

I cringed. Funny how he seemed to know not to say 
the name — just like before in the car with the music. 
He picked up on so much about me that I never said. 

“You don’t have to talk about it,” he told me. 

I nodded, grateful. 



218 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“But don’t get mad at me for hanging around, okay?” 
Jacob patted the back of my hand. “Because I’m not 
giving up. I’ve got loads of time.” 

I sighed. “You shouldn’t waste it on me,” I said, 
though I wanted him to. Especially if he was willing to 
accept me the way I was — damaged goods, as is. 

“It’s what I want to do, as long as you still like to be 
with me.” 

“I can’t imagine how I could not like being with you,” I 
told him honestly. 

Jacob beamed. “I can live with that.” 

“Just don’t expect more,” I warned him, trying to pull 
my hand away. He held onto it obstinately. 

“This doesn’t really bother you, does it?” he 
demanded, squeezing my fingers. 

“No,” I sighed. Truthfully, it felt nice. His hand was so 
much warmer than mine; I always felt too cold these 
days. 

“And you don’t care what he thinks.” Jacob jerked his 
thumb toward the bathroom. 

“I guess not.” 

“So what’s the problem?” 

“The problem,” I said, “is that it means something 
different to me than it does to you.” 

“Well.” He tightened his hand around mine. “That’s 
my problem, isn’t it?” 



219 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Fine,” I grumbled. “Don’t forget it, though.” 



“I won’t. The pin’s out of the grenade for me, now, 
eh?” He poked me in the ribs. 

I rolled my eyes. I guess if he felt like making a joke 
out of it, he was entitled. 

He chuckled quietly for a minute while his pinky 
finger absently traced designs against the side of my 
hand. 

“That’s a funny scar you’ve got there,” he suddenly 
said, twisting my hand to examine it. “How did that 
happen?” 

The index finger of his free hand followed the line of 
the long silvery crescent that was barely visible 
against my pale skin. 

I scowled. “Do you honestly expect me to remember 
where all my scars come from?” 

I waited for the memory to hit — to open the gaping 
hole. But, as it so often did, Jacob’s presence kept me 
whole. 

“It’s cold,” he murmured, pressing lightly against the 
place where James had cut me with his teeth. 

And then Mike stumbled out of the bathroom, his face 
ashen and covered in sweat. He looked horrible. 

“Oh, Mike,” I gasped. 

“Do you mind leaving early?” he whispered. 

“No, of course not.” I pulled my hand free and went to 
help Mike walk. He looked unsteady. 

220 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Movie too much for you?” Jacob asked heartlessly. 

Mike’s glare was malevolent. “I didn’t actually see any 
of it,” he mumbled. “I was nauseated before the lights 
went down.” 

“Why didn’t you say something?” I scolded as we 
staggered toward the exit. 

“I was hoping it would pass,” he said. 

“Just a sec,” Jacob said as we reached the door. He 
walked quickly back to the concession stand. 

“Could I have an empty popcorn bucket?” he asked 
the salesgirl. She looked at Mike once, and then 
thrust a bucket at Jacob. 

“Get him outside, please,” she begged. She was 
obviously the one who would have to clean the floor. 

I towed Mike out into the cool, wet air. He inhaled 
deeply. Jacob was right behind us. He helped me get 
Mike into the back of the car, and handed him the 
bucket with a serious gaze. 

“Please,” was all Jacob said. 

We rolled down the windows, letting the icy night air 
blow through the car, hoping it would help Mike. I 
curled my arms around my legs to keep warm. 

“Cold, again?” Jacob asked, putting his arm around 
me before I could answer. 

“You’re not?” 

He shook his head. 



221 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You must have a fever or something,” I grumbled. It 
was freezing. I touched my fingers to his forehead, 
and his head was hot. 

“Whoa, Jake — you’re burning up!” 

“I feel fine.” He shrugged. “Fit as a fiddle.” 

I frowned and touched his head again. His skin 
blazed under my fingers. 

“Your hands are like ice,” he complained. 

“Maybe it’s me,” I allowed. 

Mike groaned in the backseat, and threw up in the 
bucket. I grimaced, hoping my own stomach could 
stand the sound and smell. Jacob checked anxiously 
over his shoulder to make sure his car wasn’t defiled. 

The road felt longer on the way back. 

Jacob was quiet, thoughtful. He left his arm around 
me, and it was so warm that the cold wind felt good. 

I stared out the windshield, consumed with guilt. 

It was so wrong to encourage Jacob. Pure selfishness. 
It didn’t matter that I’d tried to make my position 
clear. If he felt any hope at all that this could turn 
into something other than friendship, then I hadn’t 
been clear enough. 

How could I explain so that he would understand? I 
was an empty shell. Like a vacant house — 
condemned — for months I’d been utterly 
uninhabitable. Now I was a little improved. The front 
room was in better repair. But that was all — just the 
one small piece. He deserved better than that — better 
222 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




than a one-room, falling-down fixer-upper. No 
amount of investment on his part could put me back 
in working order. 

Yet I knew that I wouldn’t send him away, regardless. 

I needed him too much, and I was selfish. Maybe I 
could make my side more clear, so that he would 
know to leave me. The thought made me shudder, 
and Jacob tightened his arm around me. 

I drove Mike home in his Suburban, while Jacob 
followed behind us to take me home. Jacob was quiet 
all the way back to my house, and I wondered if he 
were thinking the same things that I was. Maybe he 
was changing his mind. 

“I would invite myself in, since we’re early,” he said as 
we pulled up next to my truck. “But I think you might 
be right about the fever. I’m starting to feel a 
little... strange.” 

“Oh no, not you, too! Do you want me to drive you 
home?” 

“No.” He shook his head, his eyebrows pulling 
together. “I don’t feel sick yet. Just... wrong. If I have 
to, I’ll pull over.” 

“Will you call me as soon as you get in?” I asked 
anxiously. 

“Sure, sure.” He frowned, staring ahead into the 
darkness and biting his lip. 

I opened my door to get out, but he grabbed my wrist 
lightly and held me there. I noticed again how hot his 
skin felt on mine. 

“What is it, Jake?” I asked. 

223 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“There’s something I want to tell you, Bella... but I 
think it’s going to sound kind of corny.” 

I sighed. This would be more of the same from the 
theater. “Go ahead.” 

“It’s just that, I know how you’re unhappy a lot. And, 
maybe it doesn’t help anything, but I wanted you to 
know that I’m always here. I won’t ever let you 
down — I promise that you can always count on me. 
Wow, that does sound corny. But you know that, 
right? That I would never, ever hurt you?” 

“Yeah, Jake. I know that. And I already do count on 
you, probably more than you know.” 

The smile broke across his face the way the sunrise 
set the clouds on fire, and I wanted to cut my tongue 
out. I hadn’t said one word that was a lie, but I 
should have lied. The truth was wrong, it would hurt 
him. I would let him down. 

A strange look crossed his face. “I really think I’d 
better go home now,” he said. 

I got out quickly. 

“Call me!” I yelled as he pulled away. 

I watched him go, and he seemed to be in control of 
the car, at least. I stared at the empty street when he 
was gone, feeling a little sick myself, but not for any 
physical reason. 

How much I wished that Jacob Black had been born 
my brother, my flesh-and-blood brother, so that I 
would have some legitimate claim on him that still left 
me free of any blame now. Heaven knows I had never 



224 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




wanted to use Jacob, but I couldn’t help but interpret 
the guilt I felt now to mean that I had. 



Even more, I had never meant to love him. One thing 
I truly knew — knew it in the pit of my stomach, in the 
center of my bones, knew it from the crown of my 
head to the soles of my feet, knew it deep in my empty 
chest — was how love gave someone the power to 
break you. 

I’d been broken beyond repair. 

But I needed Jacob now, needed him like a drug. I’d 
used him as a crutch for too long, and I was in deeper 
than I’d planned to go with anyone again. Now I 
couldn’t bear for him to be hurt, and I couldn’t keep 
from hurting him, either. He thought time and 
patience would change me, and, though I knew he 
was dead wrong, I also knew that I would let him try. 

He was my best friend. I would always love him, and 
it would never, ever be enough. 

I went inside to sit by the phone and bite my nails. 

“Movie over already?” Charlie asked in surprise when 
I came in. He was on the floor, just a foot from the TV. 
Must be an exciting game. 

“Mike got sick,” I explained. “Some kind of stomach 
flu.” 

“You okay?” 

“I feel fine now,” I said doubtfully. Clearly, I’d been 
exposed. 

I leaned against the kitchen counter, my hand inches 
from the phone, and tried to wait patiently. I thought 

225 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




of the strange look on Jacob’s face before he drove 
away, and my fingers started drumming against the 
counter. I should have insisted on driving him home. 

I watched the clock as the minutes ticked by. Ten. 
Fifteen. Even when I was driving, it took only fifteen 
minutes, and Jacob drove faster than I did. Eighteen 
minutes. I picked up the phone and dialed. 

It rang and rang. Maybe Billy was asleep. Maybe I’d 
dialed wrong. I tried again. 

On the eighth ring, just as I was about to hang up, 
Billy answered. 

“Hello?” he asked. His voice was wary, like he was 
expecting bad news. 

“Billy, it’s me, Bella — did Jake make it home yet? He 
left here about twenty minutes ago.” 

“He’s here,” Billy said tonelessly. 

“He was supposed to call me.” I was a little irritated. 
“He was getting sick when he left, and I was worried.” 

“He was... too sick to call. He’s not feeling well right 
now.” Billy sounded distant. I realized he must want 
to be with Jacob. 

“Let me know if you need any help,” I offered. “I could 
come down.” I thought of Billy, stuck in his chair, and 
Jake fending for himself.... 

“No, no,” Billy said quickly. “We’re fine. Stay at your 
place.” 

The way he said it was almost rude. 



226 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay,” I agreed. 



“Bye, Bella.” 

The line disconnected. 

“Bye,” I muttered. 

Well, at least he’d made it home. Oddly, I didn’t feel 
less worried. I trudged up the stairs, fretting. Maybe I 
would go down before work tomorrow to check on 
him. I could take soup — we had to have a can of 
Campbell’s around here somewhere. 

I realized all such plans were canceled when I woke 
up early — my clock said four thirty — and sprinted to 
the bathroom. Charlie found me there a half hour 
later, lying on the floor, my cheek pressed against the 
cold edge of the bathtub. 

He looked at me for a long moment. 

“Stomach flu,” he finally said. 

“Yes,” I moaned. 

“You need something?” he asked. 

“Call the Newtons for me, please,” I instructed 
hoarsely. “Tell them I have what Mike has, and that I 
can’t make it in today. Tell them I’m sorry.” 

“Sure, no problem,” Charlie assured me. 

I spent the rest of the day on the bathroom floor, 
sleeping for a few hours with my head on a crumpled 
up towel. Charlie claimed that he had to work, but I 
suspected that he just wanted access to a bathroom. 



227 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He left a glass of water on the floor beside me to keep 
me hydrated. 



It woke me up when he came back home. I could see 
that it was dark in my room — after nightfall. He 
clumped up the stairs to check on me. 

“Still alive?” 

“Sort of,” I said. 

“Do you want anything?” 

“No, thanks.” 

He hesitated, clearly out of his element. “Okay, then,” 
he said, and then he went back down to the kitchen. 

I heard the phone ring a few minutes later. Charlie 
spoke to someone in a low voice for a moment, and 
then hung up. 

“Mike feels better,” he called up to me. 

Well, that was encouraging. He’d only gotten sick 
eight hours or so before me. Eight more hours. The 
thought made my stomach turn, and I pulled myself 
up to lean over the toilet. 

I fell asleep on the towel again, but when I woke up I 
was in my bed and it was light outside my window. I 
didn’t remember moving; Charlie must have carried 
me to my room — he’d also put the glass of water on 
my bedside table. I felt parched. I chugged it down, 
though it tasted funny from sitting stagnant all night. 

I got up slowly, trying not to trigger the nausea again. 

I was weak, and my mouth tasted horrible, but my 
stomach felt fine. I looked at my clock. 

228 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My twenty-four hours were up. 



I didn’t push it, eating nothing but saltine crackers 
for breakfast. Charlie looked relieved to see me 
recovered. 

As soon as I was sure that I wasn’t going to have to 
spend the day on the bathroom floor again, I called 
Jacob. 

Jacob was the one who answered, but when I heard 
his greeting I knew he wasn’t over it. 

“Hello?” His voice was broken, cracking. 

“Oh, Jake,” I groaned sympathetically. “You sound 
horrible.” 

“I feel horrible,” he whispered. 

“I’m so sorry I made you go out with me. This sucks.” 

“I’m glad I went.” His voice was still a whisper. “Don’t 
blame yourself. This isn’t your fault.” 

“You’ll get better soon,” I promised. “I woke up this 
morning, and I was fine.” 

“You were sick?” he asked dully. 

“Yes, I got it, too. But I’m fine now.” 

“That’s good.” His voice was dead. 

“So you’ll probably be better in a few hours,” I 
encouraged. 

I could barely hear his answer. “I don’t think I have 
the same thing you did.” 

229 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t you have the stomach flu?” I asked, confused. 
“No. This is something else.” 

“What’s wrong with you?” 

“Everything,” he whispered. “Every part of me hurts.” 

The pain in his voice was nearly tangible. 

“What can I do, Jake? What can I bring you?” 

“Nothing. You can’t come here.” He was abrupt. It 
reminded me of Billy the other night. 

“I’ve already been exposed to whatever you have,” I 
pointed out. 

He ignored me. “I’ll call you when I can. I’ll let you 
know when you can come down again.” 

“Jacob—” 

“I’ve got to go,” he said with sudden urgency. 

“Call me when you feel better.” 

“Right,” he agreed, and his voice had a strange, bitter 
edge. 

He was silent for a moment. I was waiting for him to 
say goodbye, but he waited too. 

“I’ll see you soon,” I finally said. 

“Wait for me to call,” he said again. 

“Okay.... Bye, Jacob.” 



230 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella,” he whispered my name, and then hung up 
the phone. 



231 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




10 



THE MEADOW 



Jacob didn't call. 

The first time I called, Billy answered and told me 
that Jacob was still in bed. I got nosy, checking to 
make sure that Billy had taken him to a doctor. Billy 
said he had, but, for some reason I couldn’t nail 
down, I didn’t really believe him. I called again, 
several times a day, for the next two days, but no one 
was ever there. 

Saturday, I decided to go see him, invitation be 
damned. But the little red house was empty. This 
frightened me — was Jacob so sick that he’d needed to 
go to the hospital? I stopped by the hospital on the 
way back home, but the nurse at the front desk told 
me neither Jacob or Billy had been in. 

I made Charlie call Harry Clearwater as soon as he 
got home from work. I waited, anxious, while Charlie 
chatted with his old friend; the conversation seemed 
to go on forever without Jacob even being mentioned. 
It seemed that Harry had been in the hospital... some 
kind of tests for his heart. Charlie’s forehead got all 
pinched together, but Harry joked with him, blowing 
it off, until Charlie was laughing again. Only then did 
Charlie ask about Jacob, and now his side of the 
conversation didn’t give me much to work with, just a 
lot of hmms and yeahs. I drummed my fingers against 
the counter beside him until he put a hand over mine 
to stop me. 

Finally, Charlie hung up the phone and turned to me. 



232 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Harry says there’s been some trouble with the phone 
lines, and that’s why you haven’t been able to get 
through. Billy took Jake to the doc down there, and it 
looks like he has mono. He’s real tired, and Billy said 
no visitors,” he reported. 

“No visitors?” I demanded in disbelief. 

Charlie raised one eyebrow. “Now don’t you go making 
a pest of yourself, Bells. Billy knows what’s best for 
Jake. He’ll be up and around soon enough. Be 
patient.” 

I didn’t push it. Charlie was too worried about Harry. 
That was clearly the more important issue — it 
wouldn’t be right to bug him with my lesser concerns. 
Instead, I went straight upstairs and turned on my 
computer. I found a medical site online and typed 
“mononucleosis” into the search box. 

All I knew about mono was that you were supposed to 
get it from kissing, which was clearly not the case 
with Jake. I read through the symptoms quickly — the 
fever he definitely had, but what about the rest of it? 
No horrible sore throat, no exhaustion, no headaches, 
at least not before he’d gone home from the movie; 
he’d said he felt “fit as a fiddle.” Did it really come on 
so fast? The article made it sound like the sore stuff 
showed up first. 

I glared at the computer screen and wondered why, 
exactly, I was doing this. Why did I feel so... so 
suspicious, like I didn’t believe Billy’s story? Why 
would Billy lie to Harry? 

I was being silly, probably. I was just worried, and, to 
be honest, I was afraid of not being allowed to see 
Jacob — that made me nervous. 



233 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I skimmed through the rest of the article, looking for 
more information. I stopped when I got to the part 
about how mono could last more than a month. 

A month? My mouth fell open. 

But Billy couldn’t enforce the no-visitors thing that 
long. Of course not. Jake would go crazy stuck in bed 
that long without anyone to talk to. 

What was Billy afraid of, anyway? The article said 
that a person with mono needed to avoid physical 
activity, but there was nothing about visitors. The 
disease wasn’t very infectious. 

I’d give Billy a week, I decided, before I got pushy. A 
week was generous. 

A week was long. By Wednesday, I was sure I wasn’t 
going to live till Saturday. 

When I’d decided to leave Billy and Jacob alone for a 
week, I hadn’t really believed that Jacob would go 
along with Billy’s rule. Every day when I got home 
from school, I ran to the phone to check for messages. 
There never were any. 

I cheated three times by trying to call him, but the 
phone lines still weren’t working. 

I was in the house much too much, and much too 
alone. Without Jacob, and my adrenaline and my 
distractions, everything I’d been repressing started 
creeping up on me. The dreams got hard again. I 
could no longer see the end coming. Just the horrible 
nothingness — half the time in the forest, half the time 
in the empty fern sea where the white house no 
longer existed. Sometimes Sam Uley was there in the 
forest, watching me again. I paid him no attention — 
234 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




there was no comfort in his presence; it made me feel 
no less alone. It didn’t stop me from screaming myself 
awake, night after night. 

The hole in my chest was worse than ever. I’d thought 
that I’d been getting it under control, but I found 
myself hunched over, day after day, clutching my 
sides together and gasping for air. 

I wasn’t handling alone well. 

I was relieved beyond measure the morning I woke 
up — screaming, of course — and remembered that it 
was Saturday. Today I could call Jacob. And if the 
phone lines still weren’t working, then I was going to 
La Push. One way or another, today would be better 
than the last lonely week. 

I dialed, and then waited without high expectations. It 
caught me off guard when Billy answered on the 
second ring. 

“Hello?” 

“Oh, hey, the phone is working again! Hi, Billy. It’s 
Bella. I was just calling to see how Jacob is doing. Is 
he up for visitors yet? I was thinking about dropping 

by-” 



“I’m sorry, Bella,” Billy interrupted, and I wondered if 
he were watching TV; he sounded distracted. “He’s 
not in.” 

“Oh.” It took me a second. “So he’s feeling better 
then?” 

“Yeah,” Billy hesitated for an instant too long. “Turns 
out it wasn’t mono after all. Just some other virus.” 



235 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh. So... where is he?” 



“He’s giving some friends a ride up to Port Angeles — I 
think they were going to catch a double feature or 
something. He’s gone for the whole day.” 

“Well, that’s a relief. I’ve been so worried. I’m glad he 
felt good enough to get out.” My voice sounded 
horribly phony as I babbled on. 

Jacob was better, but not well enough to call me. He 
was out with friends. I was sitting home, missing him 
more every hour. I was lonely, worried, 
bored... perforated — and now also desolate as I 
realized that the week apart had not had the same 
effect on him. 

“Is there anything in particular you wanted?” Billy 
asked politely. 

“No, not really.” 

“Well, I’ll tell him that you called,” Billy promised. 
“Bye, Bella.” 

“Bye,” I replied, but he’d already hung up. 

I stood for a moment with the phone still in my hand. 

Jacob must have changed his mind, just like I’d 
feared. He was going to take my advice and not waste 
any more time on someone who couldn’t return his 
feelings. I felt the blood run out of my face. 

“Something wrong?” Charlie asked as he came down 
the stairs. 

“No,” I lied, hanging up the phone. “Billy says Jacob 
is feeling better. It wasn’t mono. So that’s good.” 

236 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Is he coming here, or are you going there?” Charlie 
asked absentmindedly as he started poking through 
the fridge. 

“Neither,” I admitted. “He’s going out with some other 
friends.” 

The tone of my voice finally caught Charlie’s 
attention. He looked up at me with sudden alarm, his 
hands frozen around a package of cheese slices. 

“Isn’t it a little early for lunch?” I asked as lightly as I 
could manage, trying to distract him. 

“No, I’m just packing something to take out to the 
river....” 

“Oh, fishing today?” 

“Well, Harry called... and it’s not raining.” He was 
creating a stack of food on the counter as he spoke. 
Suddenly he looked up again as if he’d just realized 
something. “Say, did you want me to stay with you, 
since Jake’s out?” 

“That’s okay, Dad,” I said, working to sound 
indifferent. “The fish bite better when the weather’s 
nice.” 

He stared at me, indecision clear on his face. I knew 
that he was worrying, afraid to leave me alone, in case 
I got “mopey” again. 

“Seriously, Dad. I think I’ll call Jessica,” I fibbed 
quickly. I’d rather be alone than have him watching 
me all day. “We have a Calculus test to study for. I 
could use her help.” That part was true. But I’d have 
to make do without it. 



237 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s a good idea. You’ve been spending so much 
time with Jacob, your other friends are going to think 
you’ve forgotten them.” 

I smiled and nodded as if I cared what my other 
friends thought. 

Charlie started to turn, but then spun back with a 
worried expression. “Hey, you’ll study here or at 
Jess’s, right?” 

“Sure, where else?” 

“Well, it’s just that I want you to be careful to stay out 
of the woods, like I told you before.” 

It took me a minute to understand, distracted as I 
was. “More bear trouble?” 

Charlie nodded, frowning. “We’ve got a missing 
hiker — the rangers found his camp early this 
morning, but no sign of him. There were some really 
big animal prints... of course those could have come 
later, smelling the food.... Anyway, they’re setting 
traps for it now.” 

“Oh,” I said vaguely. I wasn’t really listening to his 
warnings; I was much more upset by the situation 
with Jacob than by the possibility of being eaten by a 
bear. 

I was glad that Charlie was in a hurry. He didn’t wait 
for me to call Jessica, so I didn’t have to put on that 
charade. I went through the motions of gathering my 
schoolbooks on the kitchen table to pack them in my 
bag; that was probably too much, and if he hadn’t 
been eager to hit the holes, it might have made him 
suspicious. 



238 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I was so busy looking busy that the ferociously empty 
day ahead didn’t really crash down on me until after 
I’d watched him drive away. It only took about two 
minutes of staring at the silent kitchen phone to 
decide that I wasn’t staying home today. I considered 
my options. 

I wasn’t going to call Jessica. As far as I could tell, 
Jessica had crossed over to the dark side. 

I could drive to La Push and get my motorcycle — an 
appealing thought but for one minor problem: who 
was going to drive me to the emergency room if I 
needed it afterward? 

Or... I already had our map and compass in the truck. 
I was pretty sure I understood the process well 
enough by now that I wouldn’t get lost. Maybe I could 
eliminate two lines today, putting us ahead of 
schedule for whenever Jacob decided to honor me 
with his presence again. I refused to think about how 
long that might be. Or if it was going to be never. 

I felt a brief twinge of guilt as I realized how Charlie 
would feel about this, but I ignored it. I just couldn’t 
stay in the house again today. 

A few minutes later I was on the familiar dirt road 
that led to nowhere in particular. I had the windows 
rolled down and I drove as fast as was healthy for my 
truck, trying to enjoy the wind against my face. It was 
cloudy, but almost dry — a very nice day, for Forks. 

Getting started took me longer than it would have 
taken Jacob. After I parked in the usual spot, I had to 
spend a good fifteen minutes studying the little needle 
on the compass face and the markings on the now 
worn map. When I was reasonably certain that I was 



239 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




following the right line of the web, I set off into the 
woods. 



The forest was full of life today, all the little creatures 
enjoying the momentary dryness. Somehow, though, 
even with the birds chirping and cawing, the insects 
buzzing noisily around my head, and the occasional 
scurry of the field mice through the shrubs, the forest 
seemed creepier today; it reminded me of my most 
recent nightmare. I knew it was just because I was 
alone, missing Jacob’s carefree whistle and the sound 
of another pair of feet squishing across the damp 
ground. 

The sense of unease grew stronger the deeper I got 
into the trees. Breathing started to get more difficult — 
not because of exertion, but because I was having 
trouble with the stupid hole in my chest again. I kept 
my arms tight around my torso and tried to banish 
the ache from my thoughts. I almost turned around, 
but I hated to waste the effort I’d already expended. 

The rhythm of my footsteps started to numb my mind 
and my pain as I trudged on. My breathing evened 
out eventually, and I was glad I hadn’t quit. I was 
getting better at this bushwhacking thing; I could tell 
I was faster. 

I didn’t realize quite how much more efficiently I was 
moving. I thought I’d covered maybe four miles, and I 
wasn’t even starting to look around for it yet. And 
then, with an abruptness that disoriented me, I 
stepped through a low arch made by two vine 
maples — pushing past the chest-high ferns — into the 
meadow. 

It was the same place, of that I was instantly sure. I’d 
never seen another clearing so symmetrical. It was as 
perfectly round as if someone had intentionally 

240 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




created the flawless circle, tearing out the trees but 
leaving no evidence of that violence in the waving 
grass. To the east, I could hear the stream bubbling 
quietly. 

The place wasn’t nearly so stunning without the 
sunlight, but it was still very beautiful and serene. It 
was the wrong season for wildflowers; the ground was 
thick with tall grass that swayed in the light breeze 
like ripples across a lake. 

It was the same place... but it didn’t hold what I had 
been searching for. 

The disappointment was nearly as instantaneous as 
the recognition. I sank down right where I was, 
kneeling there at the edge of the clearing, beginning 
to gasp. 

What was the point of going any farther? Nothing 
lingered here. Nothing more than the memories that I 
could have called back whenever I wanted to, if I was 
ever willing to endure the corresponding pain — the 
pain that had me now, had me cold. There was 
nothing special about this place without him. I wasn’t 
exactly sure what I’d hoped to feel here, but the 
meadow was empty of atmosphere, empty of 
everything, just like everywhere else. Just like my 
nightmares. My head swirled dizzily. 

At least I’d come alone. I felt a rush of thankfulness 
as I realized that. If I’d discovered the meadow with 
Jacob... well, there was no way I could have disguised 
the abyss I was plunging into now. How could I have 
explained the way I was fracturing into pieces, the 
way I had to curl into a ball to keep the empty hole 
from tearing me apart? It was so much better that I 
didn’t have an audience. 



241 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




And I wouldn’t have to explain to anyone why I was in 
such a hurry to leave, either. Jacob would have 
assumed, after going to so much trouble to locate the 
stupid place, I would want to spend more than a few 
seconds here. But I was already trying to find the 
strength to get to my feet again, forcing myself out of 
the ball so that I could escape. There was too much 
pain in this empty place to bear — I would crawl away 
if I had to. 

How lucky that I was alone! 

Alone. I repeated the word with grim satisfaction as I 
wrenched myself to my feet despite the pain. At 
precisely that moment, a figure stepped out from the 
trees to the north, some thirty paces away. 

A dizzying array of emotions shot through me in a 
second. The first was surprise; I was far from any trail 
here, and I didn’t expect company. Then, as my eyes 
focused on the motionless figure, seeing the utter 
stillness, the pallid skin, a rush of piercing hope 
rocked through me. I suppressed it viciously, fighting 
against the equally sharp lash of agony as my eyes 
continued to the face beneath the black hair, the face 
that wasn’t the one I wanted to see. Next was fear; 
this was not the face I grieved for, but it was close 
enough for me to know that the man facing me was 
no stray hiker. 

And finally, in the end, recognition. 

“Laurent!” I cried in surprised pleasure. 

It was an irrational response. I probably should have 
stopped at fear. 

Laurent had been one of James’s coven when we’d 
first met. He hadn’t been involved with the hunt that 

242 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




followed — the hunt where I was the quarry — but that 
was only because he was afraid; I was protected by a 
bigger coven than his own. It would have been 
different if that wasn’t the case — he’d had no 
compunctions, at the time, against making a meal of 
me. Of course, he must have changed, because he’d 
gone to Alaska to live with the other civilized coven 
there, the other family that refused to drink human 
blood for ethical reasons. The other family like... but I 
couldn’t let myself think the name. 

Yes, fear would have made more sense, but all I felt 
was an overwhelming satisfaction. The meadow was a 
magic place again. A darker magic than I’d expected, 
to be sure, but magic all the same. Here was the 
connection I’d sought. The proof, however remote, 
that — somewhere in the same world where I lived — he 
did exist. 

It was impossible how exactly the same Laurent 
looked. I suppose it was very silly and human to 
expect some kind of change in the last year. But there 
was something... I couldn’t quite put my finger on it. 

“Bella?” he asked, looking more astonished than I felt. 

“You remember.” I smiled. It was ridiculous that I 
should be so elated because a vampire knew my 
name. 

He grinned. “I didn’t expect to see you here.” He 
strolled toward me, his expression bemused. 

“Isn’t it the other way around? I do live here. I 
thought you’d gone to Alaska.” 

He stopped about ten paces away, cocking his head to 
the side. His face was the most beautiful face I’d seen 
in what felt like an eternity. I studied his features 

243 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




with a strangely greedy sense of release. Here was 
someone I didn’t have to pretend for — someone who 
already knew everything I could never say. 

“You’re right,” he agreed. “I did go to Alaska. Still, I 
didn’t expect... When I found the Cullen place empty, I 
thought they’d moved on.” 

“Oh.” I bit my lip as the name set the raw edges of my 
wound throbbing. It took me a second to compose 
myself. Laurent waited with curious eyes. 

“They did move on,” I finally managed to tell him. 

“Hmm,” he murmured. “I’m surprised they left you 
behind. Weren’t you sort of a pet of theirs?” His eyes 
were innocent of any intended offense. 

I smiled wryly. “Something like that.” 

“Hmm,” he said, thoughtful again. 

At that precise moment, I realized why he looked the 
same — too much the same. After Carlisle told us that 
Laurent had stayed with Tanya’s family, I’d begun to 
picture him, on the rare occasions that I thought of 
him at all, with the same golden eyes that 
the... Cullens — I forced the name out, wincing — had. 
That all good vampires had. 

I took an involuntary step back, and his curious, dark 
red eyes followed the movement. 

“Do they visit often?” he asked, still casual, but his 
weight shifted toward me. 

“Lie,” the beautiful velvet voice whispered anxiously 
from my memory. 



244 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I started at the sound of his voice, but it should not 
have surprised me. Was I not in the worst danger 
imaginable? The motorcycle was safe as kittens next 
to this. 

I did what the voice said to do. 

“Now and again.” I tried to make my voice light, 
relaxed. “The time seems longer to me, I imagine. You 
know how they get distracted....” I was beginning to 
babble. I had to work to shut myself up. 

“Hmm,” he said again. “The house smelled like it had 
been vacant for a while....” 

“You must lie better than that, Bella,” the voice urged. 

I tried. “Ill have to mention to Carlisle that you 
stopped by. Hell be sorry they missed your visit.” I 
pretended to deliberate for a second. “But I probably 
shouldn’t mention it to... Edward, I suppose — ” I 
barely managed to say his name, and it twisted my 
expression on the way out, ruining my bluff “ — he has 
such a temper... well, I’m sure you remember. He’s 
still touchy about the whole James thing.” I rolled my 
eyes and waved one hand dismissively, like it was all 
ancient history, but there was an edge of hysteria to 
my voice. I wondered if he would recognize what it 
was. 

“Is he really?” Laurent asked pleasantly... skeptically. 

I kept my reply short, so that my voice wouldn’t 
betray my panic. “Mm-hmm.” 

Laurent took a casual step to the side, gazing around 
at the little meadow. I didn’t miss that the step 
brought him closer to me. In my head, the voice 
responded with a low snarl. 

245 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“So how are things working out in Denali? Carlisle 
said you were staying with Tanya?” My voice was too 
high. 

The question made him pause. “I like Tanya very 
much,” he mused. “And her sister Irina even 
more....Tve never stayed in one place for so long 
before, and I enjoy the advantages, the novelty of it. 
But, the restrictions are difficult.... I’m surprised that 
any of them can keep it up for long.” He smiled at me 
conspiratorially. “Sometimes I cheat.” 

I couldn’t swallow. My foot started to ease back, but I 
froze when his red eyes flickered down to catch the 
movement. 

“Oh,” I said in a faint voice. “Jasper has problems 
with that, too.” 

“Don’t move,” the voice whispered. I tried to do what 
he instructed. It was hard; the instinct to take flight 
was nearly uncontrollable. 

“Really?” Laurent seemed interested. “Is that why they 
left?” 

“No,” I answered honestly. “Jasper is more careful at 
home.” 

“Yes,” Laurent agreed. “I am, too.” 

The step forward he took now was quite deliberate. 

“Did Victoria ever find you?” I asked, breathless, 
desperate to distract him. It was the first question 
that popped into my head, and I regretted it as soon 
as the words were spoken. Victoria — who had hunted 
me with James, and then disappeared — was not 



246 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




someone I wanted to think of at this particular 
moment. 



But the question did stop him. 

“Yes,” he said, hesitating on that step. “I actually 
came here as a favor to her.” He made a face. “She 
won’t be happy about this.” 

“About what?” I said eagerly, inviting him to continue. 
He was glaring into the trees, away from me. I took 
advantage of his diversion, taking a furtive step back. 

He looked back at me and smiled — the expression 
made him look like a black-haired angel. 

“About me killing you,” he answered in a seductive 
purr. 

I staggered back another step. The frantic growling in 
my head made it hard to hear. 

“She wanted to save that part for herself,” he went on 
blithely. “She’s sort of... put out with you, Bella.” 

“Me?” I squeaked. 

He shook his head and chuckled. “I know, it seems a 
little backward to me, too. But James was her mate, 
and your Edward killed him.” 

Even here, on the point of death, his name tore 
against my unhealed wounds like a serrated edge. 

Laurent was oblivious to my reaction. “She thought it 
more appropriate to kill you than Edward — fair 
turnabout, mate for mate. She asked me to get the lay 
of the land for her, so to speak. I didn’t imagine you 
would be so easy to get to. So maybe her plan was 
247 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




flawed — apparently it wouldn’t be the revenge she 
imagined, since you must not mean very much to him 
if he left you here unprotected.” 

Another blow, another tear through my chest. 

Laurent’s weight shifted slightly, and I stumbled 
another step back. 

He frowned. “I suppose she’ll be angry, all the same.” 

“Then why not wait for her?” I choked out. 

A mischievous grin rearranged his features. “Well, 
you’ve caught me at a bad time, Bella. I didn’t come 
to this place on Victoria’s mission — I was hunting. I’m 
quite thirsty, and you do smell... simply 
mouthwatering.” 

Laurent looked at me with approval, as if he meant it 
as a compliment. 

“Threaten him,” the beautiful delusion ordered, his 
voice distorted with dread. 

“He’ll know it was you,” I whispered obediently. “You 
won’t get away with this.” 

“And why not?” Laurent’s smile widened. He gazed 
around the small opening in the trees. “The scent will 
wash away with the next rain. No one will find your 
body — you’ll simply go missing, like so many, many 
other humans. There’s no reason for Edward to think 
of me, if he cares enough to investigate. This is 
nothing personal, let me assure you, Bella. Just 
thirst.” 

“Beg,” my hallucination begged. 



248 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Please,” I gasped. 



Laurent shook his head, his face kind. “Look at it this 
way, Bella. You’re very lucky I was the one to find 
you.” 

“Am I?” I mouthed, faltering another step back. 

Laurent followed, lithe and graceful. 

“Yes,” he assured me. “I’ll be very quick. You won’t 
feel a thing, I promise. Oh, I’ll lie to Victoria about 
that later, naturally, just to placate her. But if you 
knew what she had planned for you, Bella . . .” He 
shook his head with a slow movement, almost as if in 
disgust. “I swear you’d be thanking me for this.” 

I stared at him in horror. 

He sniffed at the breeze that blew threads of my hair 
in his direction. “Mouthwatering,” he repeated, 
inhaling deeply. 

I tensed for the spring, my eyes squinting as I cringed 
away, and the sound of Edward’s furious roar echoed 
distantly in the back of my head. His name burst 
through all the walls I’d built to contain it. Edward, 
Edward, Edward. I was going to die. It shouldn’t 
matter if I thought of him now. Edward, I love you. 

Through my narrowed eyes, I watched as Laurent 
paused in the act of inhaling and whipped his head 
abruptly to the left. I was afraid to look away from 
him, to follow his glance, though he hardly needed a 
distraction or any other trick to overpower me. I was 
too amazed to feel relief when he started slowly 
backing away from me. 



249 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t believe it,” he said, his voice so low that I 
barely heard it. 



I had to look then. My eyes scanned the meadow, 
searching for the interruption that had extended my 
life by a few seconds. At first I saw nothing, and my 
gaze flickered back to Laurent. He was retreating 
more quickly now, his eyes boring into the forest. 

Then I saw it; a huge black shape eased out of the 
trees, quiet as a shadow, and stalked deliberately 
toward the vampire. It was enormous — as tall as a 
horse, but thicker, much more muscular. The long 
muzzle grimaced, revealing a line of dagger-like 
incisors. A grisly snarl rolled out from between the 
teeth, rumbling across the clearing like a prolonged 
crack of thunder. 

The bear. Only, it wasn’t a bear at all. Still, this 
gigantic black monster had to be the creature causing 
all the alarm. From a distance, anyone would assume 
it was a bear. What else could be so vast, so 
powerfully built? 

I wished I were lucky enough to see it from a 
distance. Instead, it padded silently through the grass 
a mere ten feet from where I stood. 

“Don’t move an inch,” Edward’s voice whispered. 

I stared at the monstrous creature, my mind boggling 
as I tried to put a name to it. There was a distinctly 
canine cast to the shape of it, the way it moved. I 
could only think of one possibility, locked in horror as 
I was. Yet I’d never imagined that a wolf could get so 
big. 

Another growl rumbled in its throat, and I shuddered 
away from the sound. 

250 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Laurent was backing toward the edge of the trees, 
and, under the freezing terror, confusion swept 
through me. Why was Laurent retreating? Granted, 
the wolf was monstrous in size, but it was just an 
animal. What reason would a vampire have for fearing 
an animal? And Laurent was afraid. His eyes were 
wide with horror, just like mine. 

As if in answer to my question, suddenly the 
mammoth wolf was not alone. Flanking it on either 
side, another two gigantic beasts prowled silently into 
the meadow. One was a deep gray, the other brown, 
neither one quite as tall as the first. The gray wolf 
came through the trees only a few feet from me, its 
eyes locked on Laurent. 

Before I could even react, two more wolves followed, 
lined up in a V, like geese flying south. Which meant 
that the rusty brown monster that shrugged through 
the brush last was close enough for me to touch. 

I gave an involuntary gasp and jumped back — which 
was the stupidest thing I could have done. I froze 
again, waiting for the wolves to turn on me, the much 
weaker of the available prey. I wished briefly that 
Laurent would get on with it and crush the wolf 
pack — it should be so simple for him. I guessed that, 
between the two choices before me, being eaten by 
wolves was almost certainly the worse option. 

The wolf closest to me, the reddish brown one, turned 
its head slightly at the sound of my gasp. 

The wolfs eyes were dark, nearly black. It gazed at me 
for a fraction of a second, the deep eyes seeming too 
intelligent for a wild animal. 

As it stared at me, I suddenly thought of Jacob — 
again, with gratitude. At least I’d come here alone, to 

251 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




this fairytale meadow filled with dark monsters. At 
least Jacob wasn’t going to die, too. At least I wouldn’t 
have his death on my hands. 

Then another low growl from the leader caused the 
russet wolf to whip his head around, back toward 
Laurent. 

Laurent was staring at the pack of monster wolves 
with unconcealed shock and fear. The first I could 
understand. But I was stunned when, without 
warning, he spun and disappeared into the trees. 

He ran away. 

The wolves were after him in a second, sprinting 
across the open grass with a few powerful bounds, 
snarling and snapping so loudly that my hands flew 
up instinctively to cover my ears. The sound faded 
with surprising swiftness once they disappeared into 
the woods. 

And then I was alone again. 

My knees buckled under me, and I fell onto my 
hands, sobs building in my throat. 

I knew I needed to leave, and leave now. How long 
would the wolves chase Laurent before they doubled 
back for me? Or would Laurent turn on them? Would 
he be the one that came looking? 

I couldn’t move at first, though; my arms and legs 
were shaking, and I didn’t know how to get back to 
my feet. 

My mind couldn’t move past the fear, the horror or 
the confusion. I didn’t understand what I’d just 
witnessed. 

252 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




A vampire should not have run from overgrown dogs 
like that. What good would their teeth be against his 
granite skin? 

And the wolves should have given Laurent a wide 
berth. Even if their extraordinary size had taught 
them to fear nothing, it still made no sense that they 
would pursue him. I doubted his icy marble skin 
would smell anything like food. Why would they pass 
up something warm-blooded and weak like me to 
chase after Laurent? 

I couldn’t make it add up. 

A cold breeze whipped through the meadow, swaying 
the grass like something was moving through it. 

I scrambled to my feet, backing away even though the 
wind brushed harmlessly past me. Stumbling in 
panic, I turned and ran headlong into the trees. 

The next few hours were agony. It took me three times 
as long to escape the trees as it had to get to the 
meadow. At first I paid no attention to where I was 
headed, focused only on what I was running from. By 
the time I collected myself enough to remember the 
compass, I was deep in the unfamiliar and menacing 
forest. My hands were shaking so violently that I had 
to set the compass on the muddy ground to be able to 
read it. Every few minutes I would stop to put the 
compass down and check that I was still heading 
northwest, hearing — when the sounds weren’t hidden 
behind the frantic squelching of my footsteps — the 
quiet whisper of unseen things moving in the leaves. 

The call of a jaybird made me leap back and fall into a 
thick stand of young spruce, scraping up my arms 
and tangling my hair with sap. The sudden rush of a 



253 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




squirrel up a hemlock made me scream so loud it 
hurt my own ears. 

At last there was a break in the trees ahead. I came 
out onto the empty road a mile or so south of where 
I’d left the truck. Exhausted as I was, I jogged up the 
lane until I found it. By the time I pulled myself into 
the cab, I was sobbing again. I fiercely shoved down 
both stiff locks before I dug my keys out of my pocket. 
The roar of the engine was comforting and sane. It 
helped me control the tears as I sped as fast as my 
truck would allow toward the main highway. 

I was calmer, but still a mess when I got home. 
Charlie’s cruiser was in the driveway — I hadn’t 
realized how late it was. The sky was already dusky. 

“Bella?” Charlie asked when I slammed the front door 
behind me and hastily turned the locks. 

“Yeah, it’s me.” My voice was unsteady. 

“Where have you been?” he thundered, appearing 
through the kitchen doorway with an ominous 
expression. 

I hesitated. He’d probably called the Stanleys. I’d 
better stick to the truth. 

“I was hiking,” I admitted. 

His eyes were tight. “What happened to going to 
Jessica’s?” 

“I didn’t feel like Calculus today.” 

Charlie folded his arms across his chest. “I thought I 
asked you to stay out of the forest.” 



254 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, I know. Don’t worry, I won’t do it again.” I 
shuddered. 

Charlie seemed to really look at me for the first time. I 
remembered that I had spent some time on the forest 
floor today; I must be a mess. 

“What happened?” Charlie demanded. 

Again, I decided that the truth, or part of it anyway, 
was the best option. I was too shaken to pretend that 
I’d spent an uneventful day with the flora and fauna. 

“I saw the bear.” I tried to say it calmly, but my voice 
was high and shaky. “It’s not a bear, though — it’s 
some kind of wolf. And there are five of them. A big 
black one, and gray, and reddish-brown . . .” 

Charlie’s eyes grew round with horror. He strode 
quickly to me and grabbed the tops of my arms. 

“Are you okay?” 

My head bobbed in a weak nod. 

“Tell me what happened.” 

“They didn’t pay any attention to me. But after they 
were gone, I ran away and I fell down a lot.” 

He let go of my shoulders and wrapped his arms 
around me. For a long moment, he didn’t say 
anything. 

“Wolves,” he murmured. 

“What?” 



255 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“The rangers said the tracks were wrong for a bear — 
but wolves just don’t get that big....” 

“These were huge.” 

“How many did you say you saw?” 

“Five.” 

Charlie shook his head, frowning with anxiety. He 
finally spoke in a tone that allowed no argument. “No 
more hiking.” 

“No problem,” I promised fervently. 

Charlie called the station to report what I’d seen. I 
fudged a little bit about where exactly I’d seen the 
wolves — claiming I’d been on the trail that led to the 
north. I didn’t want my dad to know how deep I’d 
gone into the forest against his wishes, and, more 
importantly, I didn’t want anyone wandering near 
where Laurent might be searching for me. The 
thought of it made me feel sick. 

“Are you hungry?” he asked me when he hung up the 
phone. 

I shook my head, though I must have been starving. I 
hadn’t eaten all day. 

“Just tired,” I told him. I turned for the stairs. 

“Hey,” Charlie said, his voice suddenly suspicious 
again. “Didn’t you say Jacob was gone for the day?” 

“That’s what Billy said,” I told him, confused by his 
question. 



256 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He studied my expression for a minute, and seemed 
satisfied with what he saw there. 

“Huh.” 

“Why?” I demanded. It sounded like he was implying 
that I’d been lying to him this morning. About 
something besides studying with Jessica. 

“Well, it’s just that when I went to pick up Harry, I 
saw Jacob out in front of the store down there with 
some of his friends. I waved hi, but he... well, I guess I 
don’t know if he saw me. I think maybe he was 
arguing with his friends. He looked strange, like he 
was upset about something. And... different. It’s like 
you can watch that kid growing! He gets bigger every 
time I see him.” 

“Billy said Jake and his friends were going up to Port 
Angeles to see some movies. They were probably just 
waiting for someone to meet them.” 

“Oh.” Charlie nodded and headed for the kitchen. 

I stood in the hall, thinking about Jacob arguing with 
his friends. I wondered if he had confronted Embry 
about the situation with Sam. Maybe that was the 
reason he’d ditched me today — if it meant he could 
sort things out with Embry, I was glad he had. 

I paused to check the locks again before I went to my 
room. It was a silly thing to do. What difference would 
a lock make to any of the monsters I’d seen this 
afternoon? I assumed the handle alone would stymie 
the wolves, not having opposable thumbs. And if 
Laurent came here... 

Or... Victoria. 



257 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I lay down on my bed, but I was shaking too hard to 
hope for sleep. I curled into a cramped ball under my 
quilt, and faced the horrifying facts. 

There was nothing I could do. There were no 
precautions I could take. There was no place I could 
hide. There was no one who could help me. 

I realized, with a nauseous roll of my stomach, that 
the situation was worse than even that. Because all 
those facts applied to Charlie, too. My father, sleeping 
one room away from me, was just a hairsbreadth off 
the heart of the target that was centered on me. My 
scent would lead them here, whether I was here or 
not. 

The tremors rocked me until my teeth chattered. 

To calm myself, I fantasized the impossible: I 
imagined the big wolves catching up to Laurent in the 
woods and massacring the indestructible immortal 
the way they would any normal person. Despite the 
absurdity of such a vision, the idea comforted me. If 
the wolves got him, then he couldn’t tell Victoria I was 
here all alone. If he didn’t return, maybe she’d think 
the Cullens were still protecting me. If only the wolves 
could win such a fight.... 

My good vampires were never coming back; how 
soothing it was to imagine that the other kind could 
also disappear. 

I squeezed my eyes tight together and waited for 
unconsciousness — almost eager for my nightmare to 
start. Better that than the pale, beautiful face that 
smiled at me now from behind my lids. 

In my imagination, Victoria’s eyes were black with 
thirst, bright with anticipation, and her lips curled 

258 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




back from her gleaming teeth in pleasure. Her red 
hair was brilliant as fire; it blew chaotically around 
her wild face. 

Laurent’s words repeated in my head. If you knew 
what she had planned for you.... 

I pressed my fist against my mouth to keep from 
screaming. 



259 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





Each time that I opened my eyes to the morning light 
and realized I’d lived through another night was a 
surprise to me. After the surprise wore off, my heart 
would start to race and my palms would sweat; I 
couldn’t really breathe again until I’d gotten up and 
ascertained that Charlie had survived as well. 

I could tell he was worried — watching me jump at any 
loud sound, or my face suddenly go white for no 
reason that he could see. From the questions he 
asked now and then, he seemed to blame the change 
on Jacob’s continued absence. 

The terror that was always foremost in my thoughts 
usually distracted me from the fact that another week 
had passed, and Jacob still hadn’t called me. But 
when I was able to concentrate on my normal life — if 
my life was really ever normal — this upset me. 

I missed him horribly. 

It had been bad enough to be alone before I was 
scared silly. Now, more than ever, I yearned for his 
carefree laugh and his infectious grin. I needed the 
safe sanity of his homemade garage and his warm 
hand around my cold fingers. 

I’d half expected him to call on Monday. If there had 
been some progress with Embry, wouldn’t he want to 
report it? I wanted to believe that it was worry for his 
friend that was occupying all his time, not that he 
was just giving up on me. 



260 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



I called him Tuesday, but no one answered. Were the 
phone lines still having problems? Or had Billy 
invested in caller I.D.? 

On Wednesday I called every half hour until after 
eleven at night, desperate to hear the warmth of 
Jacob’s voice. 

Thursday I sat in my truck in front of my house — with 
the locks pushed down — keys in hand, for a solid 
hour. I was arguing with myself, trying to justify a 
quick trip to La Push, but I couldn’t do it. 

I knew that Laurent had gone back to Victoria by 
now. If I went to La Push, I took the chance of leading 
one of them there. What if they caught up to me when 
Jake was nearby? As much as it hurt me, I knew it 
was better for Jacob that he was avoiding me. Safer 
for him. 

It was bad enough that I couldn’t figure out a way to 
keep Charlie safe. Nighttime was the most likely time 
that they would come looking for me, and what could 
I say to get Charlie out of the house? If I told him the 
truth, he’d have me locked up in a rubber room 
somewhere. I would have endured that — welcomed it, 
even — if it could have kept him safe. But Victoria 
would still come to his house first, looking for me. 
Maybe, if she found me here, that would be enough 
for her. Maybe she would just leave when she was 
done with me. 

So I couldn’t run away. Even if I could, where would I 
go? To Renee? I shuddered at the thought of dragging 
my lethal shadows into my mother’s safe, sunny 
world. I would never endanger her that way. 

The worry was eating a hole in my stomach. Soon I 
would have matching punctures. 

261 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




That night, Charlie did me another favor and called 
Harry again to see if the Blacks were out of town. 
Harry reported that Billy had attended the council 
meeting Wednesday night, and never mentioned 
anything about leaving. Charlie warned me not to 
make a nuisance of myself — Jacob would call when 
he got around to it. 

Friday afternoon, as I drove home from school, it hit 
me out of the blue. 

I wasn’t paying attention to the familiar road, letting 
the sound of the engine deaden my brain and silence 
the worries, when my subconscious delivered a 
verdict it must have been working on for some time 
without my knowledge. 

As soon as I thought of it, I felt really stupid for not 
seeing it sooner. Sure, I’d had a lot on my mind — 
revenge-obsessed vampires, giant mutant wolves, a 
ragged hole in the center of my chest — but when I laid 
the evidence out, it was embarrassingly obvious. 

Jacob avoiding me. Charlie saying he looked strange, 
upset.... Billy’s vague, unhelpful answers. 

Holy crow, I knew exactly what was going on with 
Jacob. 

It was Sam Uley. Even my nightmares had been 
trying to tell me that. Sam had gotten to Jacob. 
Whatever was happening to the other boys on the 
reservation had reached out and stolen my friend. 
He’d been sucked into Sam’s cult. 

He hadn’t given up on me at all, I realized with a rush 
of feeling. 



262 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I let my truck idle in front of my house. What should I 
do? I weighed the dangers against each other. 

If I went looking for Jacob, I risked the chance of 
Victoria or Laurent finding me with him. 

If I didn’t go after him, Sam would pull him deeper 
into his frightening, compulsory gang. Maybe it would 
be too late if I didn’t act soon. 

It had been a week, and no vampires had come for me 
yet. A week was more than enough time for them to 
have returned, so I must not be a priority. Most likely, 
as I’d decided before, they would come for me at 
night. The chances of them following me to La Push 
were much lower than the chance of losing Jacob to 
Sam. 

It was worth the danger of the secluded forest road. 
This was no idle visit to see what was going on. I 
knew what was going on. This was a rescue mission. I 
was going to talk to Jacob — kidnap him if I had to. I’d 
once seen a PBS show on deprogramming the 
brainwashed. There had to be some kind of cure. 

I decided I’d better call Charlie first. Maybe whatever 
was going on down in La Push was something the 
police should be involved in. I dashed inside, in a 
hurry to be on my way. 

Charlie answered the phone at the station himself. 
“Chief Swan.” 

“Dad, it’s Bella.” 

“What’s wrong?” 



263 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t argue with his doomsday assumption this 
time. My voice was shaking. 

“I’m worried about Jacob.” 

“Why?” he asked, surprised by the unexpected topic. 

“I think... I think something weird is going on down at 
the reservation. Jacob told me about some strange 
stuff happening with the other boys his age. Now he’s 
acting the same way and I’m scared.” 

“What kind of stuff?” He used his professional, police 
business voice. That was good; he was taking me 
seriously. 

“First he was scared, and then he was avoiding me, 
and now... I’m afraid he’s part of that bizarre gang 
down there, Sam’s gang. Sam Uley’s gang.” 

“Sam Uley?” Charlie repeated, surprised again. 

“Yes.” 

Charlie’s voice was more relaxed when he answered. 

“I think you’ve got it wrong, Bells. Sam Uley is a great 
kid. Well, he’s a man now. A good son. You should 
hear Billy talk about him. He’s really doing wonders 
with the youth on the reservation. He’s the one who — 
” Charlie broke off mid-sentence, and I guessed that 
he had been about to make a reference to the night I’d 
gotten lost in the woods. I moved on quickly. 

“Dad, it’s not like that. Jacob was scared of him.” 

“Did you talk to Billy about this?” He was trying to 
soothe me now. I’d lost him as soon as I’d mentioned 
Sam. 



264 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Billy’s not concerned.” 

“Well, Bella, then I’m sure it’s okay. Jacob’s a kid; he 
was probably just messing around. I’m sure he’s fine. 
He can’t spend every waking minute with you, after 
all.” 

“This isn’t about me,” I insisted, but the battle was 
lost. 

“I don’t think you need to worry about this. Let Billy 
take care of Jacob.” 

“Charlie ...” My voice was starting to sound whiney. 

“Bells, I got a lot on my plate right now. Two tourists 
have gone missing off a trail outside crescent lake.” 
There was an anxious edge to his voice. “This wolf 
problem is getting out of hand.” 

I was momentarily distracted — stunned, really — by his 
news. There was no way the wolves could have 
survived a match-up with Laurent.... 

“Are you sure that’s what happened to them?” I 
asked. 

“Afraid so, honey. There was — ” He hesitated. “There 
were tracks again, and... some blood this time.” 

“Oh!” It must not have come to a confrontation, then. 
Laurent must have simply outrun the wolves, but 
why? What I’d seen in the meadow just got stranger 
and stranger — more impossible to understand. 

“Look, I really have to go. Don’t worry about Jake, 
Bella. I’m sure it’s nothing.” 



265 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Fine,” I said curtly, frustrated as his words reminded 
me of the more urgent crisis at hand. “Bye.” I hung 
up. 

I stared at the phone for a long minute. What the hell, 
I decided. 

Billy answered after two rings. 

“Hello?” 

“Hey, Billy,” I almost growled. I tried to sound more 
friendly as I continued. “Can I talk to Jacob, please?” 

“Jake’s not here.” 

What a shock. “Do you know where he is?” 

“He’s out with his friends.” Billy’s voice was careful. 

“Oh yeah? Anyone I know? Quil?” I could tell the 
words didn’t come across as casually as I’d meant 
them to. 

“No,” Billy said slowly. “I don’t think he’s with Quil 
today.” 

I knew better than to mention Sam’s name. 

“Embry?” I asked. 

Billy seemed happier to answer this one. “Yeah, he’s 
with Embry.” 

That was enough for me. Embry was one of them. 
“Well, have him call me when he gets in, all right?” 
“Sure, sure. No problem.” Click. 

266 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“See you soon, Billy,” I muttered into the dead phone. 

I drove to La Push determined to wait. I’d sit out front 
of his house all night if I had to. I’d miss school. The 
boy was going to have to come home sometime, and 
when he did, he was going to have to talk to me. 

My mind was so preoccupied that the trip I’d been 
terrified of making seemed to take only a few seconds. 
Before I was expecting it, the forest began to thin, and 
I knew I would soon be able to see the first little 
houses of the reservation. 

Walking away, along the left side of the road, was a 
tall boy with a baseball cap. 

My breath caught for just a moment in my throat, 
hopeful that luck was with me for once, and I’d 
stumbled across Jacob without hardly trying. But this 
boy was too wide, and the hair was short under the 
hat. Even from behind, I was sure it was Quil, though 
he looked bigger than the last time I’d seen him. What 
was with these Quileute boys? Were they feeding 
them experimental growth hormones? 

I crossed over to the wrong side of the road to stop 
next to him. He looked up when the roar of my truck 
approached. 

Quil’s expression frightened me more than it 
surprised me. His face was bleak, brooding, his 
forehead creased with worry. 

“Oh, hey, Bella,” he greeted me dully. 

“Hi, Quil.... Are you okay?” 

He stared at me morosely. “Fine.” 



267 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Can I give you a ride somewhere?” I offered. 



“Sure, I guess,” he mumbled. He shuffled around the 
front of the truck and opened the passenger door to 
climb in. 

“Where to?” 

“My house is on the north side, back behind the 
store,” he told me. 

“Have you seen Jacob today?” The question burst 
from me almost before he’d finished speaking. 

I looked at Quil eagerly, waiting for his answer. He 
stared out the windshield for a second before he 
spoke. “From a distance,” he finally said. 

“A distance?” I echoed. 

“I tried to follow them — he was with Embry.” His voice 
was low, hard to hear over the engine. I leaned closer. 
“I know they saw me. But they turned and just 
disappeared into the trees. I don’t think they were 
alone — I think Sam and his crew might have been 
with them. 

“I’ve been stumbling around in the forest for an hour, 
yelling for them. I just barely found the road again 
when you drove up.” 

“So Sam did get to him.” The words were a little 
distorted — my teeth were gritted together. 

Quil stared at me. “You know about that?” 

I nodded. “Jake told me... before.” 

“Before,” Quil repeated, and sighed. 

268 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jacob’s just as bad as the others now?” 

“Never leaves Sam’s side.” Quil turned his head and 
spit out the open window. 

“And before that — did he avoid everyone? Was he 
acting upset?” 

His voice was low and rough. “Not for as long as the 
others. Maybe one day. Then Sam caught up with 
him.” 

“What do you think it is? Drugs or something?” 

“I can’t see Jacob or Embry getting into anything like 
that... but what do I know? What else could it be? And 
why aren’t the old people worried?” He shook his 
head, and the fear showed in his eyes now. “Jacob 
didn’t want to be a part of this... cult. I don’t 
understand what could change him.” He stared at me, 
his face frightened. “I don’t want to be next.” 

My eyes mirrored his fear. That was the second time 
I’d heard it described as a cult. I shivered. “Are your 
parents any help?” 

He grimaced. “Right. My grandfather’s on the council 
with Jacob’s dad. Sam Uley is the best thing that ever 
happened to this place, as far as he’s concerned.” 

We stared at each other for a prolonged moment. We 
were in La Push now, and my truck was barely 
crawling along the empty road. I could see the 
village’s only store not too far ahead. 

“I’ll get out now,” Quil said. “My house is right over 
there.” He gestured toward the small wooden 
rectangle behind the store. I pulled over to the 
shoulder, and he jumped out. 

269 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm going to go wait for Jacob,” I told him in a hard 
voice. 

“Good luck.” He slammed the door and shuffled 
forward along the road, his head bent forward, his 
shoulders slumped. 

Quil’s face haunted me as I made a wide U-turn and 
headed back toward the Blacks’. He was terrified of 
being next. What was happening here? 

I stopped in front of Jacob’s house, killing the motor 
and rolling down the windows. It was stuffy today, no 
breeze. I put my feet up on the dashboard and settled 
in to wait. 

A movement flashed in my peripheral vision — I turned 
and spotted Billy looking at me through the front 
window with a confused expression. I waved once and 
smiled a tight smile, but stayed where I was. 

His eyes narrowed; he let the curtain fall across the 
glass. 

I was prepared to stay as long as it took, but I wished 
I had something to do. I dug up a pen out of the 
bottom of my backpack, and an old test. I started to 
doodle on the back of the scrap. 

I’d only had time to scrawl one row of diamonds when 
there was a sharp tap against my door. 

I jumped, looking up, expecting Billy. 

“What are you doing here, Bella?” Jacob growled. 

I stared at him in blank astonishment. 



270 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob had changed radically in the last weeks since 
I’d seen him. The first thing I noticed was his hair — 
his beautiful hair was all gone, cropped quite short, 
covering his head with an inky gloss like black satin. 
The planes of his face seemed to have hardened 
subtly, tightened... aged. His neck and his shoulders 
were different, too, thicker somehow. His hands, 
where they gripped the window frame, looked 
enormous, with the tendons and veins more 
prominent under the russet skin. But the physical 
changes were insignificant. 

It was his expression that made him almost 
completely unrecognizable. The open, friendly smile 
was gone like the hair, the warmth in his dark eyes 
altered to a brooding resentment that was instantly 
disturbing. There was a darkness in Jacob now. Like 
my sun had imploded. 

“Jacob?” I whispered. 

He just stared at me, his eyes tense and angry. 

I realized we weren’t alone. Behind him stood four 
others; all tall and russet-skinned, black hair 
chopped short just like Jacob’s. They could have been 
brothers — I couldn’t even pick Embry out of the 
group. The resemblance was only intensified by the 
strikingly similar hostility in every pair of eyes. 

Every pair but one. The oldest by several years, Sam 
stood in the very back, his face serene and sure. I had 
to swallow back the bile that rose in my throat. I 
wanted to take a swing at him. No, I wanted to do 
more than that. More than anything, I wanted to be 
fierce and deadly, someone no one would dare mess 
with. Someone who would scare Sam Uley silly. 



I wanted to be a vampire. 

271 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The violent desire caught me off guard and knocked 
the wind out of me. It was the most forbidden of all 
wishes — even when I only wished it for a malicious 
reason like this, to gain an advantage over an 
enemy — because it was the most painful. That future 
was lost to me forever, had never really been within 
my grasp. I scrambled to gain control of myself while 
the hole in my chest ached hollowly. 

“What do you want?” Jacob demanded, his expression 
growing more resentful as he watched the play of 
emotion across my face. 

“I want to talk to you,” I said in a weak voice. I tried to 
focus, but I was still reeling against the escape of my 
taboo dream. 

“Go ahead,” he hissed through his teeth. His glare 
was vicious. I’d never seen him look at anyone like 
that, least of all me. It hurt with a surprising 
intensity — a physical pain, a stabbing in my head. 

“Alone!” I hissed, and my voice was stronger. 

He looked behind him, and I knew where his eyes 
would go. Every one of them was turned for Sam’s 
reaction. 

Sam nodded once, his face unperturbed. He made a 
brief comment in an unfamiliar, liquid language — I 
could only be positive that it wasn’t French or 
Spanish, but I guessed that it was Quileute. He 
turned and walked into Jacob’s house. The others, 
Paul, Jared, and Embry, I assumed, followed him in. 

“Okay.” Jacob seemed a bit less furious when the 
others were gone. His face was a little calmer, but 
also more hopeless. His mouth seemed permanently 
pulled down at the corners. 

272 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I took a deep breath. “You know what I want to 
know.” 

He didn’t answer. He just stared at me bitterly. 

I stared back and the silence stretched on. The pain 
in his face unnerved me. I felt a lump beginning to 
build in my throat. 

“Can we walk?” I asked while I could still speak. 

He didn’t respond in any way; his face didn’t change. 

I got out of the car, feeling unseen eyes behind the 
windows on me, and started walking toward the trees 
to the north. My feet squished in the damp grass and 
mud beside the road, and, as that was the only 
sound, at first I thought he wasn’t following me. But 
when I glanced around, he was right beside me, his 
feet having somehow found a less noisy path than 
mine. 

I felt better in the fringe of trees, where Sam couldn’t 
possibly be watching. As we walked, I struggled for 
the right thing to say, but nothing came. I just got 
more and more angry that Jacob had gotten sucked 
in... that Billy had allowed this... that Sam was able to 
stand there so assured and calm.... 

Jacob suddenly picked up the pace, striding ahead of 
me easily with his long legs, and then swinging 
around to face me, planting himself in my path so I 
would have to stop too. 

I was distracted by the overt grace of his movement. 
Jacob had been nearly as klutzy as me with his 
never-ending growth spurt. When did that change? 



But Jacob didn’t give me time to think about it. 

273 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Let’s get this over with,” he said in a hard, husky 
voice. 

I waited. He knew what I wanted. 

“It’s not what you think.” His voice was abruptly 
weary. “It’s not what I thought — I was way off.” 

“So what is it, then?” 

He studied my face for a long moment, speculating. 
The anger never completely left his eyes. “I can’t tell 
you,” he finally said. 

My jaw tightened, and I spoke through my teeth. “I 
thought we were friends.” 

“We were.” There was a slight emphasis on the past 
tense. 

“But you don’t need friends anymore,” I said sourly. 
“You have Sam. Isn’t that nice — you’ve always looked 
up to him so much.” 

“I didn’t understand him before.” 

“And now you’ve seen the light. Hallelujah.” 

“It wasn’t like I thought it was. This isn’t Sam’s fault. 
He’s helping me as much as he can.” His voice turned 
brittle and he looked over my head, past me, rage 
burning out from his eyes. 

“He’s helping you,” I repeated dubiously. “Naturally.” 

But Jacob didn’t seem to be listening. He was taking 
deep, deliberate breaths, trying to calm himself. He 
was so mad that his hands were shaking. 



274 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jacob, please,” I whispered. “Won’t you tell me what 
happened? Maybe I can help.” 

“No one can help me now.” The words were a low 
moan; his voice broke. 

“What did he do to you?” I demanded, tears collecting 
in my eyes. I reached out to him, as I had once before, 
stepping forward with my arms wide. 

This time he cringed away, holding his hands up 
defensively. “Don’t touch me,” he whispered. 

“Is Sam catching?” I mumbled. The stupid tears had 
escaped the corners of my eyes. I wiped them away 
with the back of my hand, and folded my arms across 
my chest. 

“Stop blaming Sam.” The words came out fast, like a 
reflex. His hands reached up to twist around the hair 
that was no longer there, and then fell limply at his 
sides. 

“Then who should I blame?” I retorted. 

He halfway smiled; it was a bleak, twisted thing. 

“You don’t want to hear that.” 

“The hell I don’t!” I snapped. “I want to know, and I 
want to know now.” 

“You’re wrong,” he snapped back. 

“Don’t you dare tell me I’m wrong — I’m not the one 
who got brainwashed! Tell me now whose fault this all 
is, if it’s not your precious Sam!” 



275 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You asked for it,” he growled at me, eyes glinting 
hard. “If you want to blame someone, why don’t you 
point your finger at those filthy, reeking bloodsuckers 
that you love so much?” 

My mouth fell open and my breath came out with a 
whooshing sound. I was frozen in place, stabbed 
through with his double-edged words. The pain 
twisted in familiar patterns through my body, the 
jagged hole ripping me open from the inside out, but 
it was second place, background music to the chaos 
of my thoughts. I couldn’t believe that I’d heard him 
correctly. There was no trace of indecision in his face. 
Only fury. 

My mouth still hung wide. 

“I told you that you didn’t want to hear it,” he said. 

“I don’t understand who you mean,” I whispered. 

He raised one eyebrow in disbelief. “I think you 
understand exactly who I mean. You’re not going to 
make me say it, are you? I don’t like hurting you.” 

“I don’t understand who you mean,” I repeated 
mechanically. 

“The Cullens,” he said slowly, drawing out the word, 
scrutinizing my face as he spoke it. “I saw that — I can 
see in your eyes what it does to you when I say their 
name.” 

I shook my head back and forth in denial, trying to 
clear it at the same time. How did he know this? And 
how did it have anything to do with Sam’s cult? Was 
it a gang of vampire-haters? What was the point of 
forming such a society when no vampires lived in 
Forks anymore? Why would Jacob start believing the 
276 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




stories about the Cullens now, when the evidence of 
them was long gone, never to return? 

It took me too long to come up with the correct 
response. “Don’t tell me you’re listening to Billy’s 
superstitious nonsense now,” I said with a feeble 
attempt at mockery. 

“He knows more than I gave him credit for.” 

“Be serious, Jacob.” 

He glared at me, his eyes critical. 

“Superstitions aside,” I said quickly. “I still don’t see 
what you’re accusing the... Cullens” — wince — “of. They 
left more than half a year ago. How can you blame 
them for what Sam is doing now?” 

“Sam isn’t doing anything, Bella. And I know they’re 
gone. But sometimes... things are set in motion, and 
then it’s too late.” 

“What’s set in motion? What’s too late? What are you 
blaming them for?” 

He was suddenly right in my face, his fury glowing in 
his eyes. “For existing,” he hissed. 

I was surprised and distracted as the warning words 
came in Edward’s voice again, when I wasn’t even 
scared. 

“Quiet now, Bella. Don’t push him,” Edward 
cautioned in my ear. 

Ever since Edward’s name had broken through the 
careful walls I’d buried it behind, I’d been unable to 



277 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




lock it up again. It didn’t hurt now — not during the 
precious seconds when I could hear his voice. 

Jacob was fuming in front of me, quivering with 
anger. 

I didn’t understand why the Edward delusion was 
unexpectedly in my mind. Jacob was livid, but he was 
Jacob. There was no adrenaline, no danger. 

“Give him a chance to calm down,” Edward’s voice 
insisted. 

I shook my head in confusion. “You’re being 
ridiculous,” I told them both. 

“Fine,” Jacob answered, breathing deeply again. “I 
won’t argue it with you. It doesn’t matter anyway, the 
damage is done.” 

“What damage?” 

He didn’t flinch as I shouted the words in his face. 

“Let’s head back. There’s nothing more to say.” 

I gaped. “There’s everything more to say! You haven’t 
said anything yet!” 

He walked past me, striding back toward the house. 

“I ran into Quil today,” I yelled after him. 

He paused midstep, but didn’t turn. 

“You remember your friend, Quil? Yeah, he’s 
terrified.” 



278 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob whirled to face me. His expression was pained. 
“Quil” was all he said. 

“He’s worried about you, too. He’s freaked out.” 

Jacob stared past me with desperate eyes. 

I goaded him further. “He’s frightened that he’s next.” 

Jacob clutched at a tree for support, his face turning 
a strange shade of green under the red-brown 
surface. “He won’t be next,” Jacob muttered to 
himself. “He can’t be. It’s over now. This shouldn’t 
still be happening. Why? Why?” His fist slammed 
against the tree. It wasn’t a big tree, slender and only 
a few feet taller than Jacob. But it still surprised me 
when the trunk gave way and snapped off loudly 
under his blows. 

Jacob stared at the sharp, broken point with shock 
that quickly turned to horror. 

“I have to get back.” He whirled and stalked away so 
swiftly that I had to jog to keep up. 

“Back to Sam!” 

“That’s one way of looking at it,” it sounded like he 
said. He was mumbling and facing away. 

I chased him back to the truck. “Wait!” I called as he 
turned toward the house. 

He spun around to face me, and I saw that his hands 
were shaking again. 

“Go home, Bella. I can’t hang out with you anymore.” 



279 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The silly, inconsequential hurt was incredibly potent. 
The tears welled up again. “Are you... breaking up 
with me?” The words were all wrong, but they were 
the best way I could think to phrase what I was 
asking. After all, what Jake and I had was more than 
any schoolyard romance. Stronger. 

He barked out a bitter laugh. “Hardly. If that were the 
case, I’d say ‘Let’s stay friends.’ I can’t even say that.” 

“Jacob... why? Sam won’t let you have other friends? 
Please, Jake. You promised. I need you!” The blank 
emptiness of my life before — before Jacob brought 
some semblance of reason back into it — reared up 
and confronted me. Loneliness choked in my throat. 

“I’m sorry, Bella,” Jacob said each word distinctly in a 
cold voice that didn’t seem to belong to him. 

I didn’t believe that this was really what Jacob wanted 
to say. It seemed like there was something else trying 
to be said through his angry eyes, but I couldn’t 
understand the message. 

Maybe this wasn’t about Sam at all. Maybe this had 
nothing to do with the Cullens. Maybe he was just 
trying to pull himself out of a hopeless situation. 
Maybe I should let him do that, if that’s what was 
best for him. I should do that. It would be right. 

But I heard my voice escaping in a whisper. 

“I’m sorry that I couldn’t... before... I wish I could 
change how I feel about you, Jacob.” I was desperate, 
reaching, stretching the truth so far that it curved 
nearly into the shape of a lie. “Maybe... maybe I would 
change,” I whispered. “Maybe, if you gave me some 
time... just don’t quit on me now, Jake. I can’t take it.” 



280 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




His face went from anger to agony in a second. One 
shaking hand reached out toward me. 

“No. Don’t think like that, Bella, please. Don’t blame 
yourself, don’t think this is your fault. This one is all 
me. I swear, it’s not about you.” 

“It’s not you, it’s me,” I whispered. “There’s a new 
one.” 

“I mean it, Bella. I’m not . . .’’he struggled, his voice 
going even huskier as he fought to control his 
emotion. His eyes were tortured. “I’m not good enough 
to be your friend anymore, or anything else. I’m not 
what I was before. I’m not good.” 

“What?” I stared at him, confused and appalled. 

“What are you saying? You’re much better than I am, 
Jake. You are good! Who told you that you aren’t? 
Sam? It’s a vicious lie, Jacob! Don’t let him tell you 
that!” I was suddenly yelling again. 

Jacob’s face went hard and flat. “No one had to tell 
me anything. I know what I am.” 

“You’re my friend, that’s what you are! Jake — don’t!” 

He was backing away from me. 

“I’m sorry, Bella,” he said again; this time it was a 
broken mumble. He turned and almost ran into the 
house. 

I was unable to move from where I stood. I stared at 
the little house; it looked too small to hold four large 
boys and two larger men. There was no reaction 
inside. No flutter at the edge of the curtain, no sound 
of voices or movement. It faced me vacantly. 



281 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The rain started to drizzle, stinging here and there 
against my skin. I couldn’t take my eyes off the 
house. Jacob would come back. He had to. 

The rain picked up, and so did the wind. The drops 
were no longer falling from above; they slanted at an 
angle from the west. I could smell the brine from the 
ocean. My hair whipped in my face, sticking to the 
wet places and tangling in my lashes. I waited. 

Finally the door opened, and I took a step forward in 
relief. 

Billy rolled his chair into the door frame. I could see 
no one behind him. 

“Charlie just called, Bella. I told him you were on your 
way home.” His eyes were full of pity. 

The pity made it final somehow. I didn’t comment. I 
just turned robotically and climbed in my truck. I’d 
left the windows open and the seats were slick and 
wet. It didn’t matter. I was already soaked. 

Not as bad! Not as bad! my mind tried to comfort me. 
It was true. This wasn’t as bad. This wasn’t the end of 
the world, not again. This was just the end of what 
little peace there was left behind. That was all. 

Not as bad, I agreed, then added, but bad enough. 

I’d thought Jake had been healing the hole in me — or 
at least plugging it up, keeping it from hurting me so 
much. I’d been wrong. He’d just been carving out his 
own hole, so that I was now riddled through like 
Swiss cheese. I wondered why I didn’t crumble into 
pieces. 



282 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie was waiting on the porch. As I rolled to a 
stop, he walked out to meet me. 

“Billy called. He said you got in fight with Jake — said 
you were pretty upset,” he explained as he opened my 
door for me. 

Then he looked at my face. A kind of horrified 
recognition registered in his expression. I tried to feel 
my face from the inside out, to know what he was 
seeing. My face felt empty and cold, and I realized 
what it would remind him of. 

“That’s not exactly how it happened,” I muttered. 

Charlie put his arm around me and helped me out of 
the car. He didn’t comment on my sodden clothes. 

“Then what did happen?” he asked when we were 
inside. He pulled the afghan off the back of the sofa 
as he spoke and wrapped it around my shoulders. I 
realized I was shivering still. 

My voice was lifeless. “Sam Uley says Jacob can’t be 
my friend anymore.” 

Charlie shot me a strange look. “Who told you that?” 

“Jacob,” I stated, though that wasn’t exactly what 
he’d said. It was still true. 

Charlie’s eyebrows pulled together. “You really think 
there’s something wrong with the Uley kid?” 

“I know there is. Jacob wouldn’t tell me what, 
though.” I could hear the water from my clothes 
dripping to the floor and splashing on the linoleum. 
“I’m going to go change.” 



283 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie was lost in thought. “Okay,” he said absently. 

I decided to take a shower because I was so cold, but 
the hot water didn’t seem to affect the temperature of 
my skin. I was still freezing when I gave up and shut 
the water off. In the sudden quiet, I could hear 
Charlie talking to someone downstairs. I wrapped a 
towel around me, and cracked the bathroom door. 

Charlie’s voice was angry. “I’m not buying that. It 
doesn’t make any sense.” 

It was quiet then, and I realized he was on the phone. 
A minute passed. 

“Don’t you put this on Bella!” Charlie suddenly 
shouted. I jumped. When he spoke again, his voice 
was careful and lower. “Bella’s made it very clear all 
along that she and Jacob were just friends.... Well, if 
that was it, then why didn’t you say so at first? No, 
Billy, I think she’s right about this.... Because I know 
my daughter, and if she says Jacob was scared 
before — ” He was cut off mid-sentence, and when he 
answered he was almost shouting again. 

“What do you mean I don’t know my daughter as well 
as I think I do!” He listened for a brief second, and his 
response was almost too low for me to hear. “If you 
think I’m going to remind her about that, then you 
had better think again. She’s only just starting to get 
over it, and mostly because of Jacob, I think. If 
whatever Jacob has going on with this Sam character 
sends her back into that depression, then Jacob is 
going to have to answer to me. You’re my friend, Billy, 
but this is hurting my family.” 

There was another break for Billy to respond. 



284 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You got that right — those boys set one toe out of line 
and I’m going to know about it. Well be keeping an 
eye on the situation, you can be sure of that.” He was 
no longer Charlie; he was Chief Swan now. 

“Fine. Yeah. Goodbye.” The phone slammed into the 
cradle. 

I tiptoed quickly across the hall into my room. Charlie 
was muttering angrily in the kitchen. 

So Billy was going to blame me. I was leading Jacob 
on and he’d finally had enough. 

It was strange, for I’d feared that myself, but after the 
last thing Jacob had said this afternoon, I didn’t 
believe it anymore. There was much more to this than 
an unrequited crush, and it surprised me that Billy 
would stoop to claiming that. It made me think that 
whatever secret they were keeping was bigger than I’d 
been imagining. At least Charlie was on my side now. 

I put my pajamas on and crawled into bed. Life 
seemed dark enough at the moment that I let myself 
cheat. The hole — holes now — were already aching, so 
why not? I pulled out the memory — not a real memory 
that would hurt too much, but the false memory of 
Edward’s voice in my mind this afternoon — and 
played it over and over in my head until I fell asleep 
with the tears still streaming calmly down my empty 
face. 

It was a new dream tonight. Rain was falling and 
Jacob was walking soundlessly beside me, though 
beneath my feet the ground crunched like dry gravel. 
But he wasn’t my Jacob; he was the new, bitter, 
graceful Jacob. The smooth suppleness of his walk 
reminded me of someone else, and, as I watched, his 
features started to change. The russet color of his 
285 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




skin leached away, leaving his face pale white like 
bone. His eyes turned gold, and then crimson, and 
then back to gold again. His shorn hair twisted in the 
breeze, turning bronze where the wind touched it. 

And his face became so beautiful that it shattered my 
heart. I reached for him, but he took a step away, 
raising his hands like a shield. And then Edward 
vanished. 

I wasn’t sure, when I woke in the dark, if I’d just 
begun crying, or if my tears had run while I slept and 
simply continued now. I stared at my dark ceiling. I 
could feel that it was the middle of the night — I was 
still half-asleep, maybe more than half. I closed my 
eyes wearily and prayed for a dreamless sleep. 

That’s when I heard the noise that must have 
wakened me in the first place. Something sharp 
scraped along the length of my window with a high- 
pitched squeal, like fingernails against the glass. 



286 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





My eyes flew wide open without fright, though I was 
so exhausted and muddled that I was not yet positive 
whether I was awake or asleep. 

Something scratched against my window again with 
the same thin, high-pitched sound. 

Confused and clumsy with sleep, I stumbled out of 
my bed and to the window, blinking the lingering 
tears from my eyes on the way. 

A huge, dark shape wobbled erratically on the other 
side of the glass, lurching toward me like it was going 
to smash right through. I staggered back, terrified, 
my throat closing around a scream. 

Victoria. 

She’d come for me. 

I was dead. 

Not Charlie, too! 

I choked back the building scream. I would have to 
keep quiet through this. Somehow. I had to keep 
Charlie from coming to investigate.... 

And then a familiar, husky voice called from the dark 
shape. 

“Bella!” it hissed. “Ouch! Damn it, open the window! 
OUCH!” 



287 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



I needed two seconds to shake off the horror before I 
could move, but then I hurried to the window and 
shoved the glass out of the way. The clouds were 
dimly lit from behind, enough for me to make sense of 
the shapes. 

“What are you doing?” I gasped. 

Jacob was clinging precariously to the top of the 
spruce that grew in the middle of Charlie’s little front 
yard. His weight had bowed the tree toward the house 
and he now swung — his legs dangling twenty feet 
above the ground — not a yard away from me. The thin 
branches at the tip of the tree scraped against the 
side of the house again with a grating squeal. 

“I’m trying to keep” — he huffed, shifting his weight as 
the treetop bounced him — “my promise!” 

I blinked my wet blurry eyes, suddenly sure that I 
was dreaming. 

“When did you ever promise to kill yourself falling out 
of Charlie’s tree?” 

He snorted, unamused, swinging his legs to improve 
his balance. “Get out of the way,” he ordered. 

“What?” 

He swung his legs again, backwards and forward, 
increasing his momentum. I realized what he was 
trying to do. 

“No, Jake!” 

But I ducked to the side, because it was too late. With 
a grunt, he launched himself toward my open 
window. 

288 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Another scream built in my throat as I waited for him 
to fall to his death — or at least maim himself against 
the wooden siding. To my shock, he swung agilely 
into my room, landing on the balls of his feet with a 
low thud. 

We both looked to the door automatically, holding our 
breath, waiting to see if the noise had woken Charlie. 
A short moment of silence passed, and then we heard 
the muffled sound of Charlie’s snore. 

A wide grin spread slowly across Jacob’s face; he 
seemed extremely pleased with himself. It wasn’t the 
grin that I knew and loved — it was a new grin, one 
that was a bitter mockery of his old sincerity, on the 
new face that belonged to Sam. 

That was a bit much for me. 

I’d cried myself to sleep over this boy. His harsh 
rejection had punched a painful new hole in what was 
left of my chest. He’d left a new nightmare behind 
him, like an infection in a sore — the insult after the 
injury. And now he was here in my room, smirking at 
me as if none of that had passed. Worse than that, 
even though his arrival had been noisy and awkward, 
it reminded me of when Edward used to sneak in 
through my window at night, and the reminder picked 
viciously at the unhealed wounds. 

All of this, coupled with the fact that I was dog-tired, 
did not put me in a friendly mood. 

“Get out!” I hissed, putting as much venom into the 
whisper as I could. 

He blinked, his face going blank with surprise. 

“No,” he protested. “I came to apologize.” 

289 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t accept!” 



I tried to shove him back out the window — after all, if 
this was a dream, it wouldn’t really hurt him. It was 
useless, though. I didn’t budge him an inch. I 
dropped my hands quickly, and stepped away from 
him. 

He wasn’t wearing a shirt, though the air blowing in 
the window was cold enough to make me shiver, and 
it made me uncomfortable to have my hands on his 
bare chest. His skin was burning hot, like his head 
had been the last time I’d touched him. Like he was 
still sick with the fever. 

He didn’t look sick. He looked huge. He leaned over 
me, so big that he blacked out the window, tongue- 
tied by my furious reaction. 

Suddenly, it was just more than I could handle — it felt 
as if all of my sleepless nights were crashing down on 
me en masse. I was so brutally tired that I thought I 
might collapse right there on the floor. I swayed 
unsteadily, and struggled to keep my eyes open. 

“Bella?” Jacob whispered anxiously. He caught my 
elbow as I swayed again, and steered me back to the 
bed. My legs gave out when I reached the edge, and I 
plopped into a limp heap on the mattress. 

“Hey, are you okay?” Jacob asked, worry creasing his 
forehead. 

I looked up at him, the tears not yet dried on my 
cheeks. “Why in the world would I be okay, Jacob?” 

Anguish replaced some of the bitterness in his face. 
“Right,” he agreed, and took a deep breath. “Crap. 
Well... I — I’m so sorry, Bella.” The apology was sincere, 

290 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




no doubt about it, though there was still an angry 
twist to his features. 

“Why did you come here? I don’t want apologies from 
you, Jake.” 

“I know,” he whispered. “But I couldn’t leave things 
the way I did this afternoon. That was horrible. I’m 
sorry.” 

I shook my head wearily. “I don’t understand 
anything.” 

“I know. I want to explain — ” He broke off suddenly, 
his mouth open, almost like something had cut off his 
air. Then he sucked in a deep breath. “But I can’t 
explain,” he said, still angry. “I wish I could.” 

I let my head fall into my hands. My question came 
out muffled by my arm. “Why?” 

He was quiet for a moment. I twisted my head to the 
side — too tired to hold it up — to see his expression. It 
surprised me. His eyes were squinted, his teeth 
clenched, his forehead wrinkled in effort. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. 

He exhaled heavily, and I realized he’d been holding 
his breath, too. “I can’t do it,” he muttered, frustrated. 

“Do what?” 

He ignored my question. “Look, Bella, haven’t you 
ever had a secret that you couldn’t tell anyone?” 

He looked at me with knowing eyes, and my thoughts 
jumped immediately to the Cullens. I hoped my 
expression didn’t look guilty. 

291 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Something you felt like you had to keep from Charlie, 
from your mom...?” he pressed. “Something you won’t 
even talk about with me? Not even now?” 

I felt my eyes tighten. I didn’t answer his question, 
though I knew he would take that as a confirmation. 

“Can you understand that I might have the same kind 
of... situation?” He was struggling again, seeming to 
fight for the right words. “Sometimes, loyalty gets in 
the way of what you want to do. Sometimes, it’s not 
your secret to tell.” 

So, I couldn’t argue with that. He was exactly right — I 
had a secret that wasn’t mine to tell, yet a secret I felt 
bound to protect. A secret that, suddenly, he seemed 
to know all about. 

I still didn’t see how it applied to him, or Sam, or 
Billy. What was it to them, now that the Cullens were 
gone? 

“I don’t know why you came here, Jacob, if you were 
just going to give me riddles instead of answers.” 

“I’m sorry,” he whispered. “This is so frustrating.” 

We looked at each other for a long moment in the 
dark room, both our faces hopeless. 

“The part that kills me,” he said abruptly, “is that you 
already know. I already told you everything!” 

“What are you talking about?” 

He sucked in a startled breath, and then leaned 
toward me, his face shifting from hopelessness to 
blazing intensity in a second. He stared fiercely into 
my eyes, and his voice was fast and eager. He spoke 

292 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the words right into my face; his breath was as hot as 
his skin. 

“I think I see a way to make this work out — because 
you know this, Bella! I can’t tell you, but if you 
guessed it! That would let me right off the hook!” 

“You want me to guess? Guess what?” 

“My secret! You can do it — you know the answer!” 

I blinked twice, trying to clear my head. I was so tired. 
Nothing he said made sense. 

He took in my blank expression, and then his face 
tensed with effort again. “Hold on, let me see if I give 
you some help,” he said. Whatever he was trying to 
do, it was so hard he was panting. 

“Help?” I asked, trying to keep up. My lids wanted to 
slip closed, but I forced them open. 

“Yeah,” he said, breathing hard. “Like clues.” 

He took my face in his enormous, too-warm hands 
and held it just a few inches from his. He stared into 
my eyes while he whispered, as if to communicate 
something besides the words he spoke. 

“Remember the first day we met — on the beach in La 
Push?” 

“Of course I do.” 

“Tell me about it.” 

I took a deep breath and tried to concentrate. “You 
asked about my truck....” 



293 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He nodded, urging me on. 



“We talked about the Rabbit....” 

“Keep going.” 

“We went for a walk down the beach....” My cheeks 
were growing warm under his palms as I 
remembered, but he wouldn’t notice, hot as his skin 
was. I’d asked him to walk with me, flirting ineptly 
but successfully, in order to pump him for 
information. 

He was nodding, anxious for more. 

My voice was nearly soundless. “You told me scary 
stories . . . Quileute legends . ” 

He closed his eyes and opened them again. “Yes.” The 
word was tense, fervent, like he was on the edge of 
something vital. He spoke slowly, making each word 
distinct. “Do you remember what I said?” 

Even in the dark, he must be able to see the change 
in the color of my face. How could I ever forget that? 
Without realizing what he was doing, Jacob had told 
me exactly what I needed to know that day — that 
Edward was a vampire. 

He looked at me with eyes that knew too much. 

“Think hard,” he told me. 

“Yes, I remember,” I breathed. 

He inhaled deeply, struggling. “Do you remember all 
the stor — ” He couldn’t finish the question. His mouth 
popped open like something had stuck in his throat. 

“All the stories?” I asked. 

294 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He nodded mutely. 

My head churned. Only one story really mattered. I 
knew he’d begun with others, but I couldn’t 
remember the inconsequential prelude, especially not 
while my brain was so clouded with exhaustion. I 
started to shake my head. 

Jacob groaned and jumped off the bed. He pressed 
his fists against his forehead and breathed fast and 
angry. “You know this, you know this,” he muttered 
to himself. 

“Jake? Jake, please, I’m exhausted. I’m no good at 
this right now. Maybe in the morning ...” 

He took a steadying breath and nodded. “Maybe it will 
come back to you. I guess I understand why you only 
remember the one story,” he added in a sarcastic, 
bitter tone. He plunked back onto the mattress beside 
me. “Do you mind if I ask you a question about that?” 
he asked, still sarcastic. “I’ve been dying to know.” 

“A question about what?” I asked warily. 

“About the vampire story I told you.” 

I stared at him with guarded eyes, unable to answer. 
He asked his question anyway. 

“Did you honestly not know?” he asked me, his voice 
turning husky. “Was I the one who told you what he 
was?” 

How did he know this? Why did he decide to believe, 
why now? My teeth clenched together. I stared back 
at him, no intention of speaking. He could see that. 



295 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“See what I mean about loyalty?” he murmured, even 
huskier now. “It’s the same for me, only worse. You 
can’t imagine how tight I’m bound....” 

I didn’t like that — didn’t like the way his eyes closed 
as if he were in pain when he spoke of being bound. 
More than dislike — I realized I hated it, hated 
anything that caused him pain. Hated it fiercely. 

Sam’s face filled my mind. 

For me, this was all essentially voluntary. I protected 
the Cullens’ secret out of love; unrequited, but true. 
For Jacob, it didn’t seem to be that way. 

“Isn’t there any way for you to get free?” I whispered, 
touching the rough edge at the back of his shorn hair. 

His hands began to tremble, but he didn’t open his 
eyes. “No. I’m in this for life. A life sentence.” A bleak 
laugh. “Longer, maybe.” 

“No, Jake,” I moaned. “What if we ran away? Just you 
and me. What if we left home, and left Sam behind?” 

“It’s not something I can run away from, Bella,” he 
whispered. “I would run with you, though, if I could.” 
His shoulders were shaking now, too. He took a deep 
breath. “Look, I’ve got to leave.” 

“Why?” 

“For one thing, you look like you’re going to pass out 
at any second. You need your sleep — I need you firing 
on all pistons. You’re going to figure this out, you 
have to.” 

“And why else?” 



296 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He frowned. “I had to sneak out — I’m not supposed to 
see you. They’ve got to be wondering where I am.” His 
mouth twisted. “I suppose I should go let them know.” 

“You don’t have to tell them anything,” I hissed. 

“All the same, I will.” 

The anger flashed hot inside me. “I hate them!” 

Jacob looked at me with wide eyes, surprised. “No, 
Bella. Don’t hate the guys. It’s not Sam’s or any of the 
others’ faults. I told you before — it’s me. Sam is 
actually... well, incredibly cool. Jared and Paul are 
great, too, though Paul is kind of... And Embry’s 
always been my friend. Nothing’s changed there — the 
only thing that hasn’t changed. I feel really bad about 
the things I used to think about Sam....” 

Sam was incredibly cool? I glared at him in disbelief, 
but let it go. 

“Then why aren’t you supposed to see me?” I 
demanded. 

“It’s not safe,” he mumbled, looking down. 

His words sent a thrill of fear through me. 

Did he know that, too? Nobody knew that besides me. 
But he was right — it was the middle of the night, the 
perfect time for hunting. Jacob shouldn’t be here in 
my room. If someone came for me, I had to be alone. 

“If I thought it was too... too risky,” he whispered, “I 
wouldn’t have come. But Bella,” he looked at me 
again, “I made you a promise. I had no idea it would 
be so hard to keep, but that doesn’t mean I’m not 
going to try.” 

297 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He saw the incomprehension in my face. “After that 
stupid movie,” he reminded me. “I promised you that I 
wouldn’t ever hurt you.... So I really blew it this 
afternoon, didn’t I?” 

“I know you didn’t want to do it, Jake. It’s okay.” 

“Thanks, Bella.” He took my hand. “I’m going to do 
what I can to be here for you, just like I promised.” He 
grinned at me suddenly. The grin was not mine, nor 
Sam’s, but some strange combination of the two. “It 
would really help if you could figure this out on your 
own, Bella. Put some honest effort into it.” 

I made a weak grimace. “I’ll try.” 

“And I’ll try to see you soon.” He sighed. “And they’ll 
try to talk me out of that.” 

“Don’t listen to them.” 

“I’ll try.” He shook his head, as if he doubted his 
success. “Come and tell me as soon as you figure it 
out.” Something occurred to him just then, something 
that made his hands shake. “If you... if you want to.” 

“Why wouldn’t I want to see you?” 

His face turned hard and bitter, one hundred percent 
the face that belonged to Sam. “Oh, I can think of a 
reason,” he said in a harsh tone. “Look, I really have 
to go. Could you do something for me?” 

I just nodded, frightened of the change in him. 

“At least call me — if you don’t want to see me again. 
Let me know if it’s like that.” 

“That won’t happen—” 

298 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He raised one hand, cutting me off. “Just let me 
know.” 

He stood and headed for the window. 

“Don’t be an idiot, Jake,” I complained. “You’ll break 
your leg. Use the door. Charlie’s not going to catch 
you.” 

“I won’t get hurt,” he muttered, but he turned for the 
door. He hesitated as he passed me, staring at me 
with an expression like something was stabbing him. 
He held one hand out, pleading. 

I took his hand, and suddenly he yanked me — too 
roughly — right off the bed so that I thudded against 
his chest. 

“Just in case,” he muttered against my hair, crushing 
me in a bear hug that about broke my ribs. 

“Can’t — breathe!” I gasped. 

He dropped me at once, keeping one hand at my waist 
so I didn’t fall over. He pushed me, more gently this 
time, back down on the bed. 

“Get some sleep, Bells. You’ve got to get your head 
working. I know you can do this. I need you to 
understand. I won’t lose you, Bella. Not for this.” 

He was to the door in one stride, opening it quietly, 
and then disappearing through it. I listened for him to 
hit the squeaky step in the stairs, but there was no 
sound. 

I lay back on my bed, my head spinning. I was too 
confused, too worn out. I closed my eyes, trying to 



299 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




make sense of it, only to be swallowed up by 
unconsciousness so swiftly that it was disorienting. 

It was not the peaceful, dreamless sleep I’d yearned 
for — of course not. I was in the forest again, and I 
started to wander the way I always did. 

I quickly became aware that this was not the same 
dream as usual. For one thing, I felt no compulsion to 
wander or to search; I was merely wandering out of 
habit, because that was what was usually expected of 
me here. Actually, this wasn’t even the same forest. 
The smell was different, and the light, too. It smelled, 
not like the damp earth of the woods, but like the 
brine of the ocean. I couldn’t see the sky; still, it 
seemed like the sun must be shining — the leaves 
above were bright jade green. 

This was the forest around La Push — near the beach 
there, I was sure of it. I knew that if I found the 
beach, I would be able to see the sun, so I hurried 
forward, following the faint sound of waves in the 
distance. 

And then Jacob was there. He grabbed my hand, 
pulling me back toward the blackest part of the 
forest. 

“Jacob, what’s wrong?” I asked. His face was the 
frightened face of a boy, and his hair was beautiful 
again, swept back into a ponytail on the nape of his 
neck. He yanked with all his strength, but I resisted; I 
didn’t want to go into the dark. 

“Run, Bella, you have to run!” he whispered, terrified. 

The abrupt wave of deja vu was so strong it nearly 
woke me up. 



300 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I knew why I recognized this place now. It was 
because I’d been here before, in another dream. A 
million years ago, part of a different life entirely. This 
was the dream I’d had the night after I’d walked with 
Jacob on the beach, the first night I knew that 
Edward was a vampire. Reliving that day with Jacob 
must have dredged this dream out of my buried 
memories. 

Detached from the dream now, I waited for it to play 
out. A light was coming toward me from the beach. In 
just a moment, Edward would walk through the trees, 
his skin faintly glowing and his eyes black and 
dangerous. He would beckon to me, and smile. He 
would be beautiful as an angel, and his teeth would 
be pointed and sharp.... 

But I was getting ahead of myself. Something else had 
to happen first. 

Jacob dropped my hand and yelped. Shaking and 
twitching, he fell to the ground at my feet. 

“Jacob!” I screamed, but he was gone. 

In his place was an enormous, red-brown wolf with 
dark, intelligent eyes. 

The dream veered off course, like a train jumping the 
tracks. 

This was not the same wolf that I’d dreamed of in 
another life. This was the great russet wolf I’d stood 
half a foot from in the meadow, just a week ago. This 
wolf was gigantic, monstrous, bigger than a bear. 

This wolf stared intently at me, trying to convey 
something vital with his intelligent eyes. The black- 
brown, familiar eyes of Jacob Black. 

301 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I woke screaming at the top of my lungs. 



I almost expected Charlie to come check on me this 
time. This wasn’t my usual screaming. I buried my 
head in my pillow and tried to muffle the hysterics 
that my screams were building into. I pressed the 
cotton tight against my face, wondering if I couldn’t 
also somehow smother the connection I’d just made. 

But Charlie didn’t come in, and eventually I was able 
to strangle the strange screeching coming out of my 
throat. 

I remembered it all now — every word that Jacob had 
said to me that day on the beach, even the part before 
he got to the vampires, the “cold ones.” Especially 
that first part. 

“Do you know any of our old stories, about where we 
came from — the Quileutes, I mean?” he asked. 

“Not really,” I admitted. 

“Well, there are lots of legends, some of them claiming 
to date back to the Flood — supposedly, the ancient 
Quileutes tied their canoes to the tops of the tallest 
trees on the mountain to survive, like Noah and the 
ark.” He smiled then, to show me how little stock he 
put in the histories. “Another legend claims that we 
descended from wolves — and that the wolves are our 
brothers still. It’s against tribal law to kill them. 

“Then there are the stories about the cold ones.” His 
voice dropped a little lower. 

“The cold ones?” 

“Yes. There are stories of the cold ones as old as the 
wolf legends, and some much more recent. According 

302 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




to legend, my own great-grandfather knew some of 
them. He was the one who made the treaty that kept 
them off our land.” Jacob rolled his eyes. 

“Your great-grandfather?” 

“He was a tribal elder, like my father. You see, the 
cold ones are the natural enemies of the wolf — well, 
not the wolf really, but the wolves that turn into men, 
like our ancestors. You would call them werewolves.” 

“Werewolves have enemies?” 

“Only one.” 

There was something stuck in my throat, choking me. 
I tried to swallow it down, but it was lodged there, 
unmoving. I tried to spit it out. 

“Werewolf,” I gasped. 

Yes, that was the word that I was choking on. 

The whole world lurched, tilting the wrong way on its 
axis. 

What kind of a place was this? Could a world really 
exist where ancient legends went wandering around 
the borders of tiny, insignificant towns, facing down 
mythical monsters? Did this mean every impossible 
fairy tale was grounded somewhere in absolute truth? 
Was there anything sane or normal at all, or was 
everything just magic and ghost stories? 

I clutched my head in my hands, trying to keep it 
from exploding. 

A small, dry voice in the back of my mind asked me 
what the big deal was. Hadn’t I already accepted the 

303 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




existence of vampires long ago — and without all the 
hysterics that time? 



Exactly, I wanted to scream back at the voice. Wasn’t 
one myth enough for anyone, enough for a lifetime? 

Besides, there’d never been one moment that I wasn’t 
completely aware that Edward Cullen was above and 
beyond the ordinary. It wasn’t such a surprise to find 
out what he was — because he so obviously was 
something. 

But Jacob? Jacob, who was just Jacob, and nothing 
more than that? Jacob, my friend? Jacob, the only 
human I’d ever been able to relate to.... 

And he wasn’t even human. 

I fought the urge to scream again. 

What did this say about me? 

I knew the answer to that one. It said that there was 
something deeply wrong with me. Why else would my 
life be filled with characters from horror movies? Why 
else would I care so much about them that it would 
tear big chunks right out of my chest when they went 
off along their mythical ways? 

In my head, everything spun and shifted, rearranging 
so that things that had meant one thing before, now 
meant something else. 

There was no cult. There had never been a cult, never 
been a gang. No, it was much worse than that. It was 
a pack. 



304 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




A pack of five mind-blowingly gigantic, multihued 
werewolves that had stalked right past me in 
Edward’s meadow.... 

Suddenly, I was in a frantic hurry. I glanced at the 
clock — it was way too early and I didn’t care. I had to 
go to La Push now. I had to see Jacob so he could tell 
me that I hadn’t lost my mind altogether. 

I pulled on the first clean clothes I could find, not 
bothering to be sure they matched, and took the 
stairs two at a time. I almost ran into Charlie as I 
skidded into the hallway, headed for the door. 

“Where are you going?” he asked, as surprised to see 
me as I was to see him. “Do you know what time it 
is?” 



“Yeah. I have to go see Jacob.” 

“I thought the thing with Sam — ” 

“That doesn’t matter, I have to talk to him right now.” 

“It’s pretty early.” He frowned when my expression 
didn’t change. “Don’t you want breakfast?” 

“Not hungry.” The words flew through my lips. He was 
blocking my path to the exit. I considered ducking 
around him and making a run for it, but I knew I 
would have to explain that to him later. “I’ll be back 
soon, okay?” 

Charlie frowned. “Straight to Jacob’s house, right? No 
stops on the way?” 

“Of course not, where would I stop?” My words were 
running together in my hurry. 



305 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t know,” he admitted. “It’s just... well, there’s 
been another attack — the wolves again. It was real 
close to the resort by the hot springs — there’s a 
witness this time. The victim was only a dozen yards 
from the road when he disappeared. His wife saw a 
huge gray wolf just a few minutes later, while she was 
searching for him, and ran for help.” 

My stomach dropped like I’d hit a corkscrew on a 
roller coaster. “A wolf attacked him?” 

“There’s no sign of him — just a little blood again.” 
Charlie’s face was pained. “The rangers are going out 
armed, taking armed volunteers. There ’re a lot of 
hunters who are eager to be involved — there’s a 
reward being offered for wolf carcasses. That’s going 
to mean a lot of firepower out there in the forest, and 
it worries me.” He shook his head. “When people get 
too excited, accidents happen....” 

“They’re going to shoot the wolves?” My voice shot 
through three octaves. 

“What else can we do? What’s wrong?” he asked, his 
tense eyes studying my face. I felt faint; I must be 
whiter than usual. “You aren’t turning into a tree- 
hugger on me, are you?” 

I couldn’t answer. If he hadn’t been watching me, I 
would have put my head between my knees. I’d 
forgotten about the missing hikers, the bloody paw 
prints.... I hadn’t connected those facts to my first 
realization. 

“Look, honey, don’t let this scare you. Just stay in 
town or on the highway — no stops — okay?” 

“Okay,” I repeated in a weak voice. 



306 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ve got to go.” 

I looked at him closely for the first time, and saw that 
he had his gun strapped to his waist and hiking boots 
on. 

“You aren’t going out there after the wolves, are you, 
Dad?” 

“I’ve got to help, Bells. People are disappearing.” 

My voice shot up again, almost hysterical now. “No! 
No, don’t go. It’s too dangerous!” 

“I’ve got to do my job, kid. Don’t be such a 
pessimist — I’ll be fine.” He turned for the door, and 
held it open. “You leaving?” 

I hesitated, my stomach still spinning in 
uncomfortable loops. What could I say to stop him? I 
was too dizzy to think of a solution. 

“Bells?” 

“Maybe it’s too early to go to La Push,” I whispered. 

“I agree,” he said, and he stepped out into the rain, 
shutting the door behind him. 

As soon as he was out of sight, I dropped to the floor 
and put my head between my knees. 

Should I go after Charlie? What would I say? 

And what about Jacob? Jacob was my best friend; I 
needed to warn him. If he really was a — I cringed and 
forced myself to think the word — werewolf (and I knew 
it was true, I could feel it), then people would be 
shooting at him! I needed to tell him and his friends 

307 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




that people would try to kill them if they went 
running around like gigantic wolves. I needed to tell 
them to stop. 

They had to stop! Charlie was out there in the woods. 
Would they care about that? I wondered.... Up until 
now, only strangers had disappeared. Did that mean 
anything, or was it just chance? 

I needed to believe that Jacob, at least, would care 
about that. 

Either way, I had to warn him. 

Or... did I? 

Jacob was my best friend, but was he a monster, too? 
A real one? A bad one? Should I warn him, if he and 
his friends were... were murderers? If they were out 
slaughtering innocent hikers in cold blood? If they 
were truly creatures from a horror movie in every 
sense, would it be wrong to protect them? 

It was inevitable that I would have to compare Jacob 
and his friends to the Cullens. I wrapped my arms 
around my chest, fighting the hole, while I thought of 
them. 

I didn’t know anything about werewolves, clearly. I 
would have expected something closer to the movies — 
big hairy half-men creatures or something — if I’d 
expected anything at all. So I didn’t know what made 
them hunt, whether hunger or thirst or just a desire 
to kill. It was hard to judge, not knowing that. 

But it couldn’t be worse than what the Cullens 
endured in their quest to be good. I thought of 
Esme — the tears started when I pictured her kind, 
lovely face — and how, as motherly and loving as she 

308 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was, she’d had to hold her nose, all ashamed, and 
run from me when I was bleeding. It couldn’t be 
harder than that. I thought of Carlisle, the centuries 
upon centuries that he had struggled to teach himself 
to ignore blood, so that he could save lives as a 
doctor. Nothing could be harder than that. 

The werewolves had chosen a different path. 

Now, what should I choose? 



309 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





If it was anyone but Jacob, I thought to myself, 
shaking my head as I drove down the forest-lined 
highway to La Push. 

I still wasn’t sure if I was doing the right thing, but I’d 
made a compromise with myself. 

I couldn’t condone what Jacob and his friends, his 
pack, were doing. I understood now what he’d said 
last night — that I might not want to see him again — 
and I could have called him as he’d suggested, but 
that felt cowardly. I owed him a face-to-face 
conversation, at least. I would tell him to his face that 
I couldn’t just overlook what was going on. I couldn’t 
be friends with a killer and say nothing, let the killing 
continue... That would make me a monster, too. 

But I couldn’t not warn him, either. I had to do what I 
could to protect him. 

I pulled up to the Blacks’ house with my lips pressed 
together into a hard line. It was bad enough that my 
best friend was a werewolf. Did he have to be a 
monster, too? 

The house was dark, no lights in the windows, but I 
didn’t care if I woke them. My fist thudded against the 
front door with angry energy; the sound reverberated 
through the walls. 

“Come in,” I heard Billy call after a minute, and a 
light flicked on. 



310 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



I twisted the knob; it was unlocked. Billy was leaning 
around an open doorway just off the little kitchen, a 
bathrobe around his shoulders, not in his chair yet. 
When he saw who it was, his eyes widened briefly, 
and then his face turned stoic. 

“Well, good morning, Bella. What are you doing up so 
early?” 

“Hey, Billy. I need to talk to Jake — where is he?” 

“Um...I don’t really know,” he lied, straight-faced. 

“Do you know what Charlie is doing this morning?” I 
demanded, sick of the stalling. 

“Should I?” 

“He and half the other men in town are all out in the 
woods with guns, hunting giant wolves.” 

Billy’s expression flickered, and then went blank. 

“So I’d like to talk to Jake about that, if you don’t 
mind,” I continued. 

Billy pursed his thick lips for a long moment. “I’d bet 
he’s still asleep,” he finally said, nodding toward the 
tiny hallway off the front room. “He’s out late a lot 
these days. Kid needs his rest — probably you 
shouldn’t wake him.” 

“It’s my turn,” I muttered under my breath as I 
stalked to the hallway. Billy sighed. 

Jacob’s tiny closet of a room was the only door in the 
yard-long hallway. I didn’t bother to knock. I threw 
the door open; it slammed against the wall with a 
bang. 

311 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob — still wearing just the same black cut-off 
sweats he’d worn last night — was stretched diagonally 
across the double bed that took up all of his room but 
a few inches around the edges. Even on a slant, it 
wasn’t long enough; his feet hung off the one end and 
his head off the other. He was fast asleep, snoring 
lightly with his mouth hanging open. The sound of 
the door hadn’t even made him twitch. 

His face was peaceful with deep sleep, all the angry 
lines smoothed out. There were circles under his eyes 
that I hadn’t noticed before. Despite his ridiculous 
size, he looked very young now, and very weary. Pity 
shook me. 

I stepped back out, and shut the door quietly behind 
me. 

Billy stared with curious, guarded eyes as I walked 
slowly back into the front room. 

“I think I’ll let him get some rest.” 

Billy nodded, and then we gazed at each other for a 
minute. I was dying to ask him about his part in this. 
What did he think of what his son had become? But I 
knew how he’d supported Sam from the very 
beginning, and so I supposed the murders must not 
bother him. How he justified that to himself I couldn’t 
imagine. 

I could see many questions for me in his dark eyes, 
but he didn’t voice them either. 

“Look,” I said, breaking the loud silence. “I’ll be down 
at the beach for a while. When he wakes up, tell him 
I’m waiting for him, okay?” 

“Sure, sure,” Billy agreed. 

312 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I wondered if he really would. Well, if he didn’t, I’d 
tried, right? 

I drove down to First Beach and parked in the empty 
dirt lot. It was still dark — the gloomy predawn of a 
cloudy day — and when I cut the headlights it was 
hard to see. I had to let my eyes adjust before I could 
find the path that led through the tall hedge of weeds. 
It was colder here, with the wind whipping off the 
black water, and I shoved my hands deep into the 
pockets of my winter jacket. At least the rain had 
stopped. 

I paced down the beach toward the north seawall. I 
couldn’t see St. James or the other islands, just the 
vague shape of the water’s edge. I picked my way 
carefully across the rocks, watching out for driftwood 
that might trip me. 

I found what I was looking for before I realized I was 
looking for it. It materialized out of the gloom when it 
was just a few feet away: a long bone-white driftwood 
tree stranded deep on the rocks. The roots twisted up 
at the seaward end, like a hundred brittle tentacles. I 
couldn’t be sure that it was the same tree where 
Jacob and I had had our first conversation — a 
conversation that had begun so many different, 
tangled threads of my life — but it seemed to be in 
about the same place. I sat down where I’d sat before, 
and stared out across the invisible sea. 

Seeing Jacob like that — innocent and vulnerable in 
sleep — had stolen all my revulsion, dissolved all my 
anger. I still couldn’t turn a blind eye to what was 
happening, like Billy seemed to, but I couldn’t 
condemn Jacob for it either. Love didn’t work that 
way, I decided. Once you cared about a person, it was 
impossible to be logical about them anymore. Jacob 



313 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was my friend whether he killed people or not. And I 
didn’t know what I was going to do about that. 

When I pictured him sleeping so peacefully, I felt an 
overpowering urge to protect him. Completely 
illogical. 

Illogical or not, I brooded over the memory his 
peaceful face, trying to come up with some answer, 
some way to shelter him, while the sky slowly turned 
gray. 

“Hi, Bella.” 

Jacob’s voice came from the darkness and made me 
jump. It was soft, almost shy, but I’d been expecting 
some forewarning from the noisy rocks, and so it still 
startled me. I could see his silhouette against the 
coming sunrise — it looked enormous. 

“Jake?” 

He stood several paces away, shifting his weight from 
foot to foot anxiously. 

“Billy told me you came by — didn’t take you very long, 
did it? I knew you could figure it out.” 

“Yeah, I remember the right story now,” I whispered. 

It was quiet for a long moment and, though it was still 
too dark to see well, my skin prickled as if his eyes 
were searching my face. There must have been 
enough light for him to read my expression, because 
when he spoke again, his voice was suddenly acidic. 

“You could have just called,” he said harshly. 



I nodded. “I know.” 

314 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob started pacing along the rocks. If I listened very 
hard, I could just hear the gentle brush of his feet on 
the rocks behind the sound of the waves. The rocks 
had clattered like castanets for me. 

“Why did you come?” he demanded, not halting his 
angry stride. 

“I thought it would be better face-to-face.” 

He snorted. “Oh, much better.” 

“Jacob, I have to warn you — ” 

“About the rangers and the hunters? Don’t worry 
about it. We already know.” 

“Don’t worry about it?” I demanded in disbelief. “Jake, 
they’ve got guns! They’re setting traps and offering 
rewards and — ” 

“We can take care of ourselves,” he growled, still 
pacing. “They’re not going to catch anything. They’re 
only making it more difficult — they’ll start 
disappearing soon enough, too.” 

“Jake!” I hissed. 

“What? It’s just a fact.” 

My voice was pale with revulsion. “How can you... feel 
that way? You know these people. Charlie’s out 
there!” The thought made my stomach twist. 

He came to an abrupt stop. “What more can we do?” 
he retorted. 



315 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The sun turned the clouds a slivery pink above us. I 
could see his expression now; it was angry, 
frustrated, betrayed. 

“Could you... well, try to not be a. . .werewolf?” I 
suggested in a whisper. 

He threw his hands up in the air. “Like I have a 
choice about it!” he shouted. “And how would that 
help anything, if you’re worried about people 
disappearing?” 

“I don’t understand you.” 

He glared at me, his eyes narrowing and his mouth 
twisting into a snarl. “You know what makes me so 
mad I could just spit?” 

I flinched away from his hostile expression. He 
seemed to be waiting for an answer, so I shook my 
head. 

“You’re such a hypocrite, Bella — there you sit, 
terrified of me! How is that fair?” His hands shook 
with anger. 

“Hypocrite? How does being afraid of a monster make 
me a hypocrite?” 

“Ugh!” he groaned, pressing his trembling fists to his 
temples and squeezing his eyes shut. “Would you 
listen to yourself?” 

“What?” 

He took two steps toward me, leaning over me and 
glaring with fury. “Well, I’m so sorry that I can’t be 
the right kind of monster for you, Bella. I guess I’m 
just not as great as a bloodsucker, am I?” 

316 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I jumped to my feet and glared back. “No, you’re not!” 
I shouted. “It’s not what you are, stupid, it’s what you 
do!” 



“What’s that supposed to mean?” He roared, his 
entire frame quivering with rage. 

I was taken entirely by surprise when Edward’s voice 
cautioned me. “Be very careful, Bella,” his velvet voice 
warned. “Don’t push him too far. You need to calm 
him down.” 

Even the voice in my head was making no sense 
today. 

I listened to him, though. I would do anything for that 
voice. 

“Jacob,” I pleaded, making my tone soft and even. “Is 
it really necessary to kill people, Jacob? Isn’t there 
some other way? I mean, if vampires can find a way to 
survive without murdering people, couldn’t you give it 
a try, too?” 

He straightened up with a jerk, like my words had 
sent an electric shock through him. His eyebrows 
shot up and his eyes stared wide. 

“Killing people?” he demanded. 

“What did you think we were talking about?” 

He wasn’t trembling anymore. He looked at me with 
half-hopeful disbelief. “I thought we were talking 
about your disgust for werewolves.” 

“No, Jake, no. It’s not that you’re a... wolf. That’s fine,” 
I promised him, and I knew as I said the words that I 
meant them. I really didn’t care if he turned into a big 

317 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




wolf — he was still Jacob. “If you could just find a way 
not to hurt people... that’s all that upsets me. These 
are innocent people, Jake, people like Charlie, and I 
can’t just look the other way while you — ” 

“Is that all? Really?” he interrupted me, a smile 
breaking across his face. “You’re just scared because 
I’m a murderer? That’s the only reason?” 

“Isn’t that reason enough?” 

He started to laugh. 

“Jacob Black, this is so not funny!” 

“Sure, sure,” he agreed, still chortling. 

He took one long stride and caught me in another 
vice-tight bear hug. 

“You really, honestly don’t mind that I morph into a 
giant dog?” he asked, his voice joyful in my ear. 

“No,” I gasped. “Can’t — breathe — Jake!” 

He let me go, but took both my hands. “I’m not a 
killer, Bella.” 

I studied his face, and it was clear that this was the 
truth. Relief pulsed through me. 

“Really?” I asked. 

“Really,” he promised solemnly. 

I threw my arms around him. It reminded me of that 
first day with the motorcycles — he was bigger, though, 
and I felt even more like a child now. 



318 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Like that other time, he stroked my hair. 



“Sorry I called you a hypocrite,” he apologized. 

“Sorry I called you a murderer.” 

He laughed. 

I thought of something then, and pulled away from 
him so that I could see his face. My eyebrows 
furrowed in anxiety. “What about Sam? And the 
others?” 

He shook his head, smiling like a huge burden had 
been removed from his shoulders. “Of course not. 
Don’t you remember what we call ourselves?” 

The memory was clear — I’d just been thinking of that 
very day. “Protectors?” 

“Exactly.” 

“But I don’t understand. What’s happening in the 
woods? The missing hikers, the blood?” 

His face was serious, worried at once. “We’re trying to 
do our job, Bella. We’re trying to protect them, but 
we’re always just a little too late.” 

“Protect them from what? Is there really a bear out 
there, too?” 

“Bella, honey, we only protect people from one thing — 
our one enemy. It’s the reason we exist — because they 
do.” 

I stared at him blankly for one second before I 
understood. Then the blood drained from my face and 
a thin, wordless cry of horror broke through my lips. 

319 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He nodded. “I thought you, of all people, would realize 
what was really going on.” 

“Laurent,” I whispered. “He’s still here.” 

Jacob blinked twice, and cocked his head to one side. 
“Who’s Laurent?” 

I tried to sort out the chaos in my head so that I could 
answer. “You know — you saw him in the meadow. You 
were there....” The words came out in a wondering 
tone as it all sunk in. “You were there, and you kept 
him from killing me....” 

“Oh, the black-haired leech?” He grinned, a tight, 
fierce grin. “Was that his name?” 

I shuddered. “What were you thinking?” I whispered. 
“He could have killed you! Jake, you don’t realize how 
dangerous — ” 

Another laugh interrupted me. “Bella, one lone 
vampire isn’t much of a problem for a pack as big as 
ours. It was so easy, it was hardly even fun!” 

“What was so easy?” 

“Killing the bloodsucker who was going to kill you. 
Now, I don’t count that towards the whole murder 
thing,” he added quickly. “Vampires don’t count as 
people.” 

I could only mouth the words. 

“You. . .killed. . .Laurent?” 

He nodded. “Well, it was a group effort,” he qualified. 
“Laurent is dead?” I whispered. 



320 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




His expression changed. “You’re not upset about that, 
are you? He was going to kill you — he was going for 
the kill, Bella, we were sure of that before we 
attacked. You know that, right?” 

“I know that. No, I’m not upset — I’m ...” I had to sit 
down. I stumbled back a step until I felt the driftwood 
against my calves, and then sank down onto it. 
“Laurent is dead. He’s not coming back for me.” 

“You’re not mad? He wasn’t one of your friends or 
anything, was he?” 

“My friend?” I stared up at him, confused and dizzy 
with relief. I started babbling, my eyes getting moist. 
“No, Jake. I’m so... so relieved. I thought he was going 
to find me — I’ve been waiting for him every night, just 
hoping that he’d stop with me and leave Charlie 
alone. I’ve been so frightened, Jacob.... But how? He 
was a vampire! How did you kill him? He was so 
strong, so hard, like marble....” 

He sat down next to me and put one big arm around 
me comfortingly. “It’s what we’re made for, Bells. 

We’re strong, too. I wish you would have told me that 
you were so afraid. You didn’t need to be.” 

“You weren’t around,” I mumbled, lost in thought. 

“Oh, right.” 

“Wait, Jake — I thought you knew, though. Last night, 
you said it wasn’t safe for you to be in my room. I 
thought you knew that a vampire might be coming. 
Isn’t that what you were talking about?” 

He looked confused for a minute, and then he ducked 
his head. “No, that’s not what I meant.” 



321 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Then why didn’t you think it was safe for you there?” 



He looked at me with guilt-ridden eyes. “I didn’t say it 
wasn’t safe for me. I was thinking of you.” 

“What do you mean?” 

He looked down and kicked a rock. “There’s more 
than one reason I’m not supposed to be around you, 
Bella. I wasn’t supposed to tell you our secret, for one 
thing, but the other part is that it’s not safe for you. If 
I get too mad... too upset... you might get hurt.” 

I thought about that carefully. “When you were mad 
before... when I was yelling at you... and you were 
shaking...?” 

“Yeah.” His face dropped even lower. “That was pretty 
stupid of me. I have to keep a better hold on myself. I 
swore I wasn’t going to get mad, no matter what you 
said to me. But... I just got so upset that I was going 
to lose you... that you couldn’t deal with what I am....” 

“What would happen... if you got too mad?” I 
whispered. 

“I’d turn into a wolf,” he whispered back. 

“You don’t need a full moon?” 

He rolled his eyes. “Hollywood’s version doesn’t get 
much right.” Then he sighed, and was serious again. 
“You don’t need to be so stressed out, Bells. We’re 
going to take care of this. And we’re keeping a special 
eye on Charlie and the others — we won’t let anything 
happen to him. Trust me on that.” 

Something very, very obvious, something I should 
have grasped at once — but I’d been so distracted by 

322 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the idea of Jacob and his friends fighting with 
Laurent, that I’d completely missed it at the time — 
occurred to me only then, when Jacob used the 
present tense again. 

We’re going to take care of this. 

It wasn’t over. 

“Laurent is dead,” I gasped, and my entire body went 
ice cold. 

“Bella?” Jacob asked anxiously, touching my ashen 
cheek. 

“If Laurent died... a week ago... then someone else is 
killing people now.” 

Jacob nodded; his teeth clenched together, and he 
spoke through them. “There were two of them. We 
thought his mate would want to fight us — in our 
stories, they usually get pretty pissed off if you kill 
their mate — but she just keeps running away, and 
then coming back again. If we could figure out what 
she was after, it would be easier to take her down. 

But she makes no sense. She keeps dancing around 
the edges, like she’s testing our defenses, looking for 
a way in — but in where? Where does she want to go? 
Sam thinks she’s trying to separate us, so she’ll have 
a better chance....” 

His voice faded until it sounded like it was coming 
through a long tunnel; I couldn’t make out the 
individual words anymore. My forehead dewed with 
sweat and my stomach rolled like I had the stomach 
flu again. Exactly like I had the flu. 

I turned away from him quickly, and leaned over the 
tree trunk. My body convulsed with useless heaves, 

323 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




my empty stomach contracting with horrified nausea, 
though there was nothing in it to expel. 

Victoria was here. Looking for me. Killing strangers in 
the woods. The woods where Charlie was searching.... 

My head spun sickeningly. 

Jacob’s hands caught my shoulders — kept me from 
sliding forward onto the rocks. I could feel his hot 
breath on my cheek. “Bella! What’s wrong?” 

“Victoria,” I gasped as soon as I could catch my 
breath around the nauseous spasms. 

In my head, Edward snarled in fury at the name. 

I felt Jacob pull me up from my slump. He draped me 
awkwardly across his lap, laying my limp head 
against his shoulder. He struggled to balance me, to 
keep me from sagging over, one way or the other. He 
brushed the sweaty hair back from my face. 

“Who?” Jacob asked. “Can you hear me, Bella? 

Bella?” 

“She wasn’t Laurent’s mate,” I moaned into his 
shoulder. “They were just old friends....” 

“Do you need some water? A doctor? Tell me what to 
do,” he demanded, frantic. 

“I’m not sick — I’m scared,” I explained in a whisper. 
The word scared didn’t really seem to cover it. 

Jacob patted my back. “Scared of this Victoria?” 

I nodded, shuddering. 



324 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Victoria is the red-haired female?” 



I trembled again, and whimpered, “Yes.” 

“How do you know she wasn’t his mate?” 

“Laurent told me James was her mate,” I explained, 
automatically flexing the hand with the scar. 

He pulled my face around, holding it steady in his big 
hand. He stared intently into my eyes. “Did he tell you 
anything else, Bella? This is important. Do you know 
what she wants?” 

“Of course,” I whispered. “She wants me.” 

His eyes flipped wide, then narrowed into slits. 

“Why?” he demanded. 

“Edward killed James,” I whispered. Jacob held me so 
tightly that there was no need for me to clutch at the 
hole — he kept me in one piece. “She did get... pissed 
off. But Laurent said she thought it was fairer to kill 
me than Edward. Mate for mate. She didn’t know — 
still doesn’t know, I guess — that... that ...” I 
swallowed hard. “That things aren’t like that with us 
anymore. Not for Edward, anyway.” 

Jacob was distracted by that, his face torn between 
several different expressions. “Is that what happened? 
Why the Cullens left?” 

“I’m nothing but a human, after all. Nothing special,” 

I explained, shrugging weakly. 

Something like a growl — not a real growl, just a 
human approximation — rumbled in Jacob’s chest 
under my ear. “If that idiot bloodsucker is honestly 
stupid enough — ” 

325 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Please,” I moaned. “Please. Don’t.” 



Jacob hesitated, then nodded once. 

“This is important,” he said again, his face all 
business now. “This is exactly what we needed to 
know. We’ve got to tell the others right away.” 

He stood, pulling me to my feet. He kept two hands 
on my waist until he was sure I wasn’t going to fall. 

“I’m okay,” I lied. 

He traded his hold on my waist for one of my hands. 
“Let’s go.” 

He pulled me back toward the truck. 

“Where are we going?” I asked. 

“I’m not sure yet,” he admitted. “I’ll call a meeting. 
Hey, wait here for just a minute, okay?” He leaned me 
against the side of the truck and released my hand. 

“Where are you going?” 

“I’ll be right back,” he promised. Then he turned and 
sprinted through the parking lot, across the road, and 
into the bordering forest. He flitted into the trees, 
swift and sleek as a deer. 

“Jacob!” I yelled after him hoarsely, but he was 
already gone. 

It was not a good time to be left alone. Seconds after 
Jacob was out of sight, I was hyperventilating. I 
dragged myself into the cab of the truck, and mashed 
the locks down at once. It didn’t make me feel any 
better. 

326 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Victoria was already hunting me. It was just luck that 
she hadn’t found me yet — just luck and five teenage 
werewolves. I exhaled sharply. No matter what Jacob 
said, the thought of him coming anywhere close to 
Victoria was horrifying. I didn’t care what he could 
turn into when he got mad. I could see her in my 
head, her face wild, her hair like flames, deadly, 
indestructible.... 

But, according to Jacob, Laurent was gone. Was that 
really possible? Edward — I clutched automatically at 
my chest — had told me how difficult it was to kill a 
vampire. Only another vampire could do the job. Yet 
Jake said this was what werewolves were made for... 

He said they were keeping a special eye on Charlie — 
that I should trust the werewolves to keep my father 
safe. How could I trust that? None of us were safe! 
Jacob the very least of all, if he was trying to put 
himself between Victoria and Charlie... between 
Victoria and me. 

I felt like I might be about to throw up again. 

A sharp rap on the truck’s window made me yelp in 
terror — but it was just Jacob, back already. I 
unlocked the door with trembling, grateful fingers. 

“You’re really scared, aren’t you?” he asked as he 
climbed in. 

I nodded. 

“Don’t be. We’ll take care of you — and Charlie, too. I 
promise.” 

“The idea of you finding Victoria is scarier than the 
idea of her finding me,” I whispered. 



327 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed. “You’ve got to have a little more 
confidence in us than that. It’s insulting.” 

I just shook my head. I’d seen too many vampires in 
action. 

“Where did you go just now?” I asked. 

He pursed his lips, and said nothing. 

“What? Is it a secret?” 

He frowned. “Not really. It’s kind of weird, though. I 
don’t want to freak you out.” 

“I’m sort of used to weird by this point, you know.” I 
tried to smile without much success. 

Jacob grinned back easily. “Guess you’d have to be. 
Okay. See, when we’re wolves, we can... hear each 
other.” 

My eyebrows pulled down in confusion. 

“Not hear sounds,” he went on, “but we can 
hear... thoughts — each other’s anyway — no matter 
how far away from each other we are. It really helps 
when we hunt, but it’s a big pain otherwise. It’s 
embarrassing — having no secrets like that. Freaky, 
eh?” 

“Is that what you meant last night, when you said you 
would tell them you’d seen me, even though you 
didn’t want to?” 

“You’re quick.” 

“Thanks.” 



328 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’re also very good with weird. I thought that 
would bother you.” 

“It’s not... well, you’re not the first person I’ve known 
who could do that. So it doesn’t seem so weird to me.” 

“Really?... Wait — are you talking about your 
bloodsuckers?” 

“I wish you wouldn’t call them that.” 

He laughed. “Whatever. The Cullens, then?” 

“Just... just Edward.” I pulled one arm surreptitiously 
around my torso. 

Jacob looked surprised — unpleasantly so. “I thought 
those were just stories. I’ve heard legends about 
vampires who could do... extra stuff, but I thought 
that was just a myth.” 

“Is anything just a myth anymore?” I asked him 
wryly. 

He scowled. “Guess not. Okay, we’re going to meet 
Sam and the others at the place we go to ride our 
bikes.” 

I started the truck and headed back up the road. 

“So did you just turn into a wolf now, to talk to Sam?” 
I asked, curious. 

Jacob nodded, seeming embarrassed. “I kept it real 
short — I tried not to think about you so they wouldn’t 
know what was going on. I was afraid Sam would tell 
me I couldn’t bring you.” 



329 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That wouldn’t have stopped me.” I couldn’t get rid of 
my perception of Sam as the bad guy. My teeth 
clenched together whenever I heard his name. 

“Well, it would have stopped me,” Jacob said, morose 
now. “Remember how I couldn’t finish my sentences 
last night? How I couldn’t just tell you the whole 
story?” 

“Yeah. You looked like you were choking on 
something.” 

He chuckled darkly. “Close enough. Sam told me I 
couldn’t tell you. He’s... the head of the pack, you 
know. He’s the Alpha. When he tells us to do 
something, or not to do something — when he really 
means it, well, we can’t just ignore him.” 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

“Very,” he agreed. “It’s kind of a wolf thing.” 

“Huh” was the best response I could think of. 

“Yeah, there’s a load of stuff like that — wolf things. 

I’m still learning. I can’t imagine what it was like for 
Sam, trying to deal with this alone. It sucks bad 
enough to go through it with a whole pack for 
support.” 

“Sam was alone?” 

“Yeah.” Jacob’s voice lowered. “When I... changed, it 
was the most... horrible, the most terrifying thing I’ve 
ever been through — worse than anything I could have 
imagined. But I wasn’t alone — there were the voices 
there, in my head, telling me what had happened and 
what I had to do. That kept me from losing my mind, I 



330 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




think. But Sam ...” He shook his head. “Sam had no 
help.” 

This was going to take some adjusting. When Jacob 
explained it like that, it was hard not to feel 
compassion for Sam. I had to keep reminding myself 
that there was no reason to hate him anymore. 

“Will they be angry that I’m with you?” I asked. 

He made a face. “Probably.” 

“Maybe I shouldn’t—” 

“No, it’s okay,” he assured me. “You know a ton of 
things that can help us. It’s not like you’re just some 
ignorant human. You’re like a... I don’t know, spy or 
something. You’ve been behind enemy lines.” 

I frowned to myself. Was that what Jacob would want 
from me? Insider information to help them destroy 
their enemies? I wasn’t a spy, though. I hadn’t been 
collecting that kind of information. Already, his words 
made me feel like a traitor. 

But I wanted him to stop Victoria, didn’t I? 

No. 

I did want Victoria to be stopped, preferably before 
she tortured me to death or ran into Charlie or killed 
another stranger. I just didn’t want Jacob to be the 
one to stop her, or rather to try. I didn’t want Jacob 
within a hundred miles of her. 

“Like the stuff about the mind-reading bloodsucker,” 
he continued, oblivious to my reverie. “That’s the kind 
of thing we need to know about. That really sucks 
that those stories are true. It makes everything more 

331 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




complicated. Hey, do you think this Victoria can do 
anything special?” 

“I don’t think so,” I hesitated, and then sighed. “He 
would have mentioned it.” 

“He? Oh, you mean Edward — oops, sorry. I forgot. 
You don’t like to say his name. Or hear it.” 

I squeezed my midsection, trying to ignore the 
throbbing around the edges of my chest. “Not really, 
no.” 

“Sorry.” 

“How do you know me so well, Jacob? Sometimes it’s 
like you can read my mind.” 

“Naw. I just pay attention.” 

We were on the little dirt road where Jacob had first 
taught me to ride the motorcycle. 

“This good?” I asked. 

“Sure, sure.” 

I pulled over and cut the engine. 

“You’re still pretty unhappy, aren’t you?” he 
murmured. 

I nodded, staring unseeingly into the gloomy forest. 
“Did you ever think... that maybe... you ’re better off?” 

I inhaled slowly, and then let my breath out. “No.” 

“’Cause he wasn’t the best — ” 

332 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Please, Jacob,” I interrupted, begging in a whisper. 
“Could we please not talk about this? I can’t stand it.” 

“Okay.” He took a deep breath. “I’m sorry I said 
anything.” 

“Don’t feel bad. If things were different, it would be 
nice to finally be able to talk to someone about it.” 

He nodded. “Yeah, I had a hard time keeping a secret 
from you for two weeks. It must be hell to not be able 
to talk to anyone.” 

“Hell,” I agreed. 

Jacob sucked in a sharp breath. “They’re here. Let’s 
go.” 

“Are you sure?” I asked while he popped his door 
open. “Maybe I shouldn’t be here.” 

“They’ll deal with it,” he said, and then he grinned. 
“Who’s afraid of the big, bad wolf?” 

“Ha ha,” I said. But I got out of the truck, hurrying 
around the front end to stand close beside Jacob. I 
remembered only too clearly the giant monsters in the 
meadow. My hands were trembling like Jacob’s had 
been before, but with fear rather than rage. 

Jake took my hand and squeezed it. “Here we go.” 



333 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





I cowered into Jacob's side, my eyes scanning the 
forest for the other werewolves. When they appeared, 
striding out from between the trees, they weren’t what 
I was expecting. I’d gotten the image of the wolves 
stuck in my head. These were just four really big half- 
naked boys. 

Again, they reminded me of brothers, quadruplets. 
Something about the way they moved almost in 
synchronization to stand across the road from us, the 
way they all had the same long, round muscles under 
the same red-brown skin, the same cropped black 
hair, and the way their expressions altered at exactly 
the same moment. 

They started out curious and cautious. When they 
saw me there, half-hidden beside Jacob, they all 
became furious in the same second. 

Sam was still the biggest, though Jacob was getting 
close to catching up with him. Sam didn’t really count 
as a boy. His face was older — not in the sense of lines 
or signs of aging, but in the maturity, the patience of 
his expression. 

“What have you done, Jacob?” he demanded. 

One of the others, one I didn’t recognize — Jared or 
Paul — thrust past Sam and spoke before Jacob could 
defend himself. 

“Why can’t you just follow the rules, Jacob?” he 
yelled, throwing his arms in the air. “What the hell 
are you thinking? Is she more important than 

334 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



everything — than the whole tribe? Than the people 
getting killed?” 

“She can help,” Jacob said quietly. 

“Help!” the angry boy shouted. His arms begin to 
quiver. “Oh, that’s likely! I’m sure the leech-lover is 
just dying to help us out!” 

“Don’t talk about her like that!” Jacob shouted back, 
stung by the boy’s criticism. 

A shudder rippled through the other boy, along his 
shoulders and down his spine. 

“Paul! Relax!” Sam commanded. 

Paul shook his head back and forth, not in defiance, 
but as though he were trying to concentrate. 

“Jeez, Paul,” one of the other boys — probably Jared — 
muttered. “Get a grip.” 

Paul twisted his head toward Jared, his lips curling 
back in irritation. Then he shifted his glare in my 
direction. Jacob took a step to put himself in front of 
me. 

That did it. 

“Right, protect her!” Paul roared in outrage. Another 
shudder, a convulsion, heaved through his body. He 
threw his head back, a real growl tearing from 
between his teeth. 

“Paul!” Sam and Jacob shouted together. 



335 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Paul seemed to fall forward, vibrating violently. 
Halfway to the ground, there was a loud ripping 
noise, and the boy exploded. 

Dark silver fur blew out from the boy, coalescing into 
a shape more than five-times his size — a massive, 
crouched shape, ready to spring. 

The wolfs muzzle wrinkled back over his teeth, and 
another growl rolled through his colossal chest. His 
dark, enraged eyes focused on me. 

In the same second, Jacob was running across the 
road straight for the monster. 

“Jacob!” I screamed. 

Mid-stride, a long tremor shivered down Jacob’s 
spine. He leaped forward, diving headfirst into the 
empty air. 

With another sharp tearing sound, Jacob exploded, 
too. He burst out of his skin — shreds of black and 
white cloth blasted up into the air. It happened so 
quickly that if I’d blinked, I’d have missed the entire 
transformation. One second it was Jacob diving into 
the air, and then it was the gigantic, russet brown 
wolf — so enormous that I couldn’t make sense of its 
mass somehow fitting inside Jacob — charging the 
crouched silver beast. 

Jacob met the other werewolf’s attack head-on. Their 
angry snarls echoed like thunder off the trees. 

The black and white scraps — the remains of Jacob’s 
clothes — fluttered to the ground where he’d 
disappeared. 

“Jacob!” I screamed again, staggering forward. 

336 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Stay where you are, Bella,” Sam ordered. It was hard 
to hear him over the roar of the fighting wolves. They 
were snapping and tearing at each other, their sharp 
teeth flashing toward each other’s throats. The Jacob- 
wolf seemed to have the upper hand — he was visibly 
bigger than the other wolf, and it looked like he was 
stronger, too. He rammed his shoulder against the 
gray wolf again and again, knocking him back toward 
the trees. 

“Take her to Emily’s,” Sam shouted toward the other 
boys, who were watching the conflict with rapt 
expressions. Jacob had successfully shoved the gray 
wolf off the road, and they were disappearing into the 
forest, though the sound of their snarls was still loud. 
Sam ran after them, kicking off his shoes on the way. 
As he darted into the trees, he was quivering from 
head to toe. 

The growling and snapping was fading into the 
distance. Suddenly, the sound cut off and it was very 
quiet on the road. 

One of the boys started laughing. 

I turned to stare at him — my wide eyes felt frozen, like 
I couldn’t even blink them. 

The boy seemed to be laughing at my expression. 
“Well, there’s something you don’t see every day,” he 
snickered. His face was vaguely familiar — thinner 
than the others.... Embry Call. 

“I do,” the other boy, Jared, grumbled. “Every single 
day.” 

“Aw, Paul doesn’t lose his temper every day,” Embry 
disagreed, still grinning. “Maybe two out of three.” 



337 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jared stopped to pick something white up off the 
ground. He held it up toward Embry; it dangled in 
limp strips from his hand. 

“Totally shredded,” Jared said. “Billy said this was the 
last pair he could afford — guess Jacob’s going 
barefoot now.” 

“This one survived,” Embry said, holding up a white 
sneaker. “Jake can hop,” he added with a laugh. 

Jared started collecting various pieces of fabric from 
the dirt. “Get Sam’s shoes, will you? All the rest of 
this is headed for the trash.” 

Embry grabbed the shoes and then jogged into the 
trees where Sam had disappeared. He was back in a 
few seconds with a pair of cut-off jeans draped over 
his arm. Jared gathered the torn remnants of Jacob’s 
and Paul’s clothes and wadded them into a ball. 
Suddenly, he seemed to remember me. 

He looked at me carefully, assessing. 

“Hey, you’re not going to faint or puke or anything?” 
he demanded. 

“I don’t think so,” I gasped. 

“You don’t look so good. Maybe you should sit down.” 

“Okay,” I mumbled. For the second time in one 
morning, I put my head between my knees. 

“Jake should have warned us,” Embry complained. 

“He shouldn’t have brought his girlfriend into this. 
What did he expect?” 



338 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, the wolfs out of the bag now.” Embry sighed. 
“Way to go, Jake.” 

I raised my head to glare at the two boys who seemed 
to be taking this all so lightly. “Aren’t you worried 
about them at all?” I demanded. 

Embry blinked once in surprise. “Worried? Why?” 

“They could hurt each other!” 

Embry and Jared guffawed. 

“I hope Paul gets a mouthful of him,” Jared said. 
“Teach him a lesson.” 

I blanched. 

“Yeah, right!” Embry disagreed. “Did you see Jake? 
Even Sam couldn’t have phased on the fly like that. 

He saw Paul losing it, and it took him, what, half a 
second to attack? The boy’s got a gift.” 

“Paul’s been fighting longer. I’ll bet you ten bucks he 
leaves a mark.” 

“You’re on. Jake’s a natural. Paul doesn’t have a 
prayer.” 

They shook hands, grinning. 

I tried to comfort myself with their lack of concern, 
but I couldn’t drive the brutal image of the fighting 
werewolves from my head. My stomach churned, sore 
and empty, my head ached with worry. 

“Let’s go see Emily. You know she’ll have food 
waiting.” Embry looked down at me. “Mind giving us a 
ride?” 

339 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“No problem,” I choked. 



Jared raised one eyebrow. “Maybe you’d better drive, 
Embry. She still looks like she might hurl.” 

“Good idea. Where are the keys?” Embry asked me. 

“Ignition.” 

Embry opened the passenger-side door. “In you go,” 
he said cheerfully, hauling me up from the ground 
with one hand and stuffing me into my seat. He 
appraised the available space. “You’ll have to ride in 
the back,” he told Jared. 

“That’s fine. I got a weak stomach. I don’t want to be 
in there when she blows.” 

“I bet she’s tougher than that. She runs with 
vampires.” 

“Five bucks?” Jared asked. 

“Done. I feel guilty, taking your money like this.” 

Embry got in and started the engine while Jared leapt 
agilely into the bed. As soon as his door was closed, 
Embry muttered to me, “Don’t throw up, okay? I’ve 
only got a ten, and if Paul got his teeth into Jacob . . 



“Okay,” I whispered. 

Embry drove us back toward the village. 

“Hey, how did Jake get around the injunction 
anyway?” 

“The... what?” 

340 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Er, the order. You know, to not spill the beans. How 
did he tell you about this?” 

“Oh, that,” I said, remembering Jacob trying to choke 
out the truth to me last night. “He didn’t. I guessed 
right.” 

Embry pursed his lips, looking surprised. “Hmm. 
S’pose that would work.” 

“Where are we going?” I asked. 

“Emily’s house. She’s Sam’s girlfriend... no, fiancee, 
now, I guess. They’ll meet us back there after Sam 
gives it to them for what just happened. And after 
Paul and Jake scrounge up some new clothes, if Paul 
even has any left.” 

“Does Emily know about...?” 

“Yeah. And hey, don’t stare at her. That bugs Sam.” 

I frowned at him. “Why would I stare?” 

Embry looked uncomfortable. “Like you saw just now, 
hanging out around werewolves has its risks.” He 
changed the subject quickly. “Hey, are you okay 
about the whole thing with the black-haired 
bloodsucker in the meadow? It didn’t look like he was 
a friend of yours, but . . .” Embry shrugged. 

“No, he wasn’t my friend.” 

“That’s good. We didn’t want to start anything, break 
the treaty, you know.” 

“Oh, yeah, Jake told me about the treaty once, a long 
time ago. Why would killing Laurent break the 
treaty?” 

341 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Laurent,” he repeated, snorting, like he was amused 
the vampire had had a name. “Well, we were 
technically on Cullen turf. We’re not allowed to attack 
any of them, the Cullens, at least, off our land — 
unless they break the treaty first. We didn’t know if 
the black-haired one was a relative of theirs or 
something. Looked like you knew him.” 

“How would they go about breaking the treaty?” 

“If they bite a human. Jake wasn’t so keen on the 
idea of letting it go that far.” 

“Oh. Um, thanks. I’m glad you didn’t wait.” 

“Our pleasure.” He sounded like he meant that in a 
literal sense. 

Embry drove past the easternmost house on the 
highway before turning off onto a narrow dirt road. 
“Your truck is slow,” he noted. 

“Sorry.” 

At the end of the lane was a tiny house that had once 
been gray. There was only one narrow window beside 
the weathered blue door, but the window box under it 
was filled with bright orange and yellow marigolds, 
giving the whole place a cheerful look. 

Embry opened the truck door and inhaled. “Mmm, 
Emily’s cooking.” 

Jared jumped out of the back of the truck and headed 
for the door, but Embry stopped him with one hand 
on his chest. He looked at me meaningfully, and 
cleared his throat. 

“I don’t have my wallet on me,” Jared said. 

342 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s okay. I won’t forget.” 



They climbed up the one step and entered the house 
without knocking. I followed timidly after them. 

The front room, like Billy’s house, was mostly kitchen. 
A young woman with satiny copper skin and long, 
straight, crow-black hair was standing at the counter 
by the sink, popping big muffins out of a tin and 
placing them on a paper plate. For one second, I 
thought the reason Embry had told me not to stare 
was because the girl was so beautiful. 

And then she asked “You guys hungry?” in a melodic 
voice, and she turned to face us full on, a smile on 
half of her face. 

The right side of her face was scarred from hairline to 
chin by three thick, red lines, livid in color though 
they were long healed. One line pulled down the 
corner of her dark, almond-shaped right eye, another 
twisted the right side of her mouth into a permanent 
grimace. 

Thankful for Embry’s warning, I quickly turned my 
eyes to the muffins in her hands. They smelled 
wonderful — like fresh blueberries. 

“Oh,” Emily said, surprised. “Who’s this?” 

I looked up, trying to focus on the left half of her face. 

“Bella Swan,” Jared told her, shrugging. Apparently, 
I’d been a topic of conversation before. “Who else?” 

“Leave it to Jacob to find a way around,” Emily 
murmured. She stared at me, and neither half of her 
once-beautiful face was friendly. “So, you’re the 
vampire girl.” 

343 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I stiffened. “Yes. Are you the wolf girl?” 

She laughed, as did Embry and Jared. The left half of 
her face warmed. “I guess I am.” She turned to Jared. 
“Where’s Sam?” 

“Bella, er, surprised Paul this morning.” 

Emily rolled her good eye. “Ah, Paul,” she sighed. “Do 
you think they’ll be long? I was just about to start the 
eggs.” 

“Don’t worry,” Embry told her. “If they’re late, we 
won’t let anything go to waste.” 

Emily chuckled, and then opened the refrigerator. “No 
doubt,” she agreed. “Bella, are you hungry? Go ahead 
and help yourself to a muffin.” 

“Thanks.” I took one from the plate and started 
nibbling around the edges. It was delicious, and it felt 
good in my tender stomach. Embry picked up his 
third and shoved it into his mouth whole. 

“Save some for your brothers,” Emily chastised him, 
hitting him on the head with a wooden spoon. The 
word surprised me, but the others thought nothing of 
it. 

“Pig,” Jared commented. 

I leaned against the counter and watched the three of 
them banter like a family. Emily’s kitchen was a 
friendly place, bright with white cupboards and pale 
wooden floorboards. On the little round table, a 
cracked blue-and-white china pitcher was overflowing 
with wildflowers. Embry and Jared seemed entirely at 
ease here. 



344 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Emily was mixing a humongous batch of eggs, several 
dozen, in a big yellow bowl. She had the sleeves of her 
lavender shirt pushed up, and I could see that the 
scars extended all the way down her arm to the back 
of her right hand. Hanging out with werewolves truly 
did have its risks, just as Embry had said. 

The front door opened, and Sam stepped through. 

“Emily,” he said, and so much love saturated his voice 
that I felt embarrassed, intrusive, as I watched him 
cross the room in one stride and take her face in his 
wide hands. He leaned down and kissed the dark 
scars on her right cheek before he kissed her lips. 

“Hey, none of that,” Jared complained. “I’m eating.” 

“Then shut up and eat,” Sam suggested, kissing 
Emily’s ruined mouth again. 

“Ugh,” Embry groaned. 

This was worse than any romantic movie; this was so 
real that it sang out loud with joy and life and true 
love. I put my muffin down and folded my arms 
across my empty chest. I stared at the flowers, trying 
to ignore the utter peace of their moment, and the 
wretched throbbing of my wounds. 

I was grateful for the distraction when Jacob and Paul 
came through the door, and then shocked when I saw 
that they were laughing. While I watched, Paul 
punched Jacob on the shoulder and Jacob went for a 
kidney jab in return. They laughed again. They both 
appeared to be in one piece. 

Jacob scanned the room, his eyes stopping when he 
found me leaning, awkward and out of place, against 
the counter in the far corner of the kitchen. 

345 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hey, Bells,” he greeted me cheerfully. He grabbed two 
muffins as he passed the table and came to stand 
beside me. “Sorry about before,” he muttered under 
his breath. “How are you holding up?” 

“Don’t worry, I’m okay. Good muffins.” I picked mine 
back up and started nibbling again. My chest felt 
better as soon as Jacob was beside me. 

“Oh, man!” Jared wailed, interrupting us. 

I looked up, and he and Embry were examining a 
fading pink line on Paul’s forearm. Embry was 
grinning, exultant. 

“Fifteen dollars,” he crowed. 

“Did you do that?” I whispered to Jacob, remembering 
the bet. 

“I barely touched him. He’ll be perfect by sundown.” 

“By sundown?” I looked at the line on Paul’s arm. 

Odd, but it looked weeks old. 

“Wolf thing,” Jacob whispered. 

I nodded, trying to not look weirded out. 

“You okay?” I asked him under my breath. 

“Not a scratch on me.” His expression was smug. 

“Hey, guys,” Sam said in a loud voice, interrupting all 
the conversations going on in the small room. Emily 
was at the stove, scraping the egg mixture around a 
big skillet, but Sam still had one hand touching the 
small of her back, an unconscious gesture. “Jacob 
has information for us.” 

346 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Paul looked unsurprised. Jacob must have explained 
this to him and Sam already. Or... they’d just heard 
his thoughts. 

“I know what the redhead wants.” Jacob directed his 
words toward Jared and Embry. “That’s what I was 
trying to tell you before.” He kicked the leg of the 
chair Paul had settled into. 

“And?” Jared asked. 

Jacob’s face got serious. “She is trying to avenge her 
mate — only it wasn’t the black-haired leech we killed. 
The Cullens got her mate last year, and she’s after 
Bella now.” 

This wasn’t news to me, but I still shivered. 

Jared, Embry, and Emily stared at me with open- 
mouthed surprise. 

“She’s just a girl,” Embry protested. 

“I didn’t say it made sense. But that’s why the 
bloodsucker’s been trying to get past us. She’s been 
heading for Forks.” 

They continued to stare at me, mouths still hanging 
open, for a long moment. I ducked my head. 

“Excellent,” Jared finally said, a smile beginning to 
pull up the corners of his mouth. “We’ve got bait.” 

With stunning speed, Jacob yanked a can opener 
from the counter and launched it at Jared’s head. 
Jared’s hand flicked up faster than I would have 
thought possible, and he snagged the tool just before 
it hit his face. 



347 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella is not bait.” 



“You know what I mean,” Jared said, unabashed. 

“So well be changing our patterns,” Sam said, 
ignoring their squabble. “Well try leaving a few holes, 
and see if she falls for it. Well have to split up, and I 
don’t like that. But if she’s really after Bella, she 
probably won’t try to take advantage of our divided 
numbers.” 

“Quil’s got to be close to joining us,” Embry 
murmured. “Then well be able to split evenly.” 

Everyone looked down. I glanced at Jacob’s face, and 
it was hopeless, like it had been yesterday afternoon, 
outside his house. No matter how comfortable they 
seemed to be with their fate, here in this happy 
kitchen, none of these werewolves wanted the same 
fate for their friend. 

“Well, we won’t count on that,” Sam said in a low 
voice, and then continued at his regular volume. 
“Paul, Jared, and Embry will take the outer 
perimeter, and Jacob and I will take the inner. We’ll 
collapse in when we’ve got her trapped.” 

I noticed that Emily didn’t particularly like that Sam 
would be in the smaller grouping. Her worry had me 
glancing up at Jacob, worrying, too. 

Sam caught my eye. “Jacob thinks it would be best if 
you spent as much time as possible here in La Push. 
She won’t know where to find you so easily, just in 
case.” 

“What about Charlie?” I demanded. 



348 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“March Madness is still going,” Jacob said. “I think 
Billy and Harry can manage to keep Charlie down 
here when he’s not at work.” 

“Wait,” Sam said, holding one hand up. His glance 
flickered to Emily and then back to me. “That’s what 
Jacob thinks is best, but you need to decide for 
yourself. You should weigh the risks of both options 
very seriously. You saw this morning how easily 
things can get dangerous here, how quickly they get 
out of hand. If you choose to stay with us, I can’t 
make any guarantees about your safety.” 

“I won’t hurt her,” Jacob mumbled, looking down. 

Sam acted as if he hadn’t heard him speak. “If there 
was somewhere else you felt safe ...” 

I bit my lip. Where could I go that wouldn’t put 
someone else in danger? I recoiled again from the idea 
of bringing Renee into this — pulling her into the circle 
of the target I wore.... “I don’t want to lead Victoria 
anywhere else,” I whispered. 

Sam nodded. “That’s true. It’s better to have her here, 
where we can end this.” 

I flinched. I didn’t want Jacob or any of the rest of 
them trying to end Victoria. I glanced at Jake’s face; it 
was relaxed, almost the same as I remembered it from 
before the onset of the wolf thing, and utterly 
unconcerned by the idea of hunting vampires. 

“You’ll be careful, right?” I asked, an audible lump in 
my throat. 

The boys burst into loud hoots of amusement. 
Everyone laughed at me — except Emily. She met my 
eyes, and I could suddenly see the symmetry 

349 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




underlying her deformity. Her face was still beautiful, 
and alive with a concern even more fierce than mine. I 
had to look away, before the love behind that concern 
could start me aching again. 

“Food’s ready,” she announced then, and the strategic 
conversation was history. The guys hurried to 
surround the table — which looked tiny and in danger 
of being crushed by them — and devoured the buffet- 
sized pan of eggs Emily placed in their midst in record 
time. Emily ate leaning against the counter like me — 
avoiding the bedlam at the table — and watched them 
with affectionate eyes. Her expression clearly stated 
that this was her family. 

All in all, it wasn’t exactly what I’d been expecting 
from a pack of werewolves. 

I spent the day in La Push, the majority of it in Billy’s 
house. He left a message on Charlie’s phone and at 
the station, and Charlie showed up around 
dinnertime with two pizzas. It was good he brought 
two larges; Jacob ate one all by himself. 

I saw Charlie eyeing the two of us suspiciously all 
night, especially the much-changed Jacob. He asked 
about the hair; Jacob shrugged and told him it was 
just more convenient. 

I knew that as soon as Charlie and I were headed 
home, Jacob would take off — off to run around as a 
wolf, as he had done intermittently through the entire 
day. He and his brothers of sorts kept up a constant 
watch, looking for some sign of Victoria’s return. But 
since they’d chased her away from the hot springs 
last night — chased her halfway to Canada, according 
to Jacob — she’d yet to make another foray. 



350 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I had no hope at all that she might just give up. I 
didn’t have that kind of luck. 

Jacob walked me to my truck after dinner and 
lingered by the window, waiting for Charlie to drive 
away first. 

“Don’t be afraid tonight,” Jacob said, while Charlie 
pretended to be having trouble with his seat belt. 
“Well be out there, watching.” 

“I won’t worry about myself,” I promised. 

“You’re silly. Hunting vampires is fun. It’s the best 
part of this whole mess.” 

I shook my head. “If I’m silly, then you’re dangerously 
unbalanced.” 

He chuckled. “Get some rest, Bella, honey. You look 
exhausted.” 

“I’ll try.” 

Charlie honked his horn impatiently. 

“See you tomorrow,” Jacob said. “Come down first 
thing.” 

“I will.” 

Charlie followed me home. I paid scant attention to 
the lights in my rearview mirror. Instead, I wondered 
where Sam and Jared and Embry and Paul were, out 
running in the night. I wondered if Jacob had joined 
them yet. 

When we got home, I hurried for the stairs, but 
Charlie was right behind me. 

351 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What’s going on, Bella?” he demanded before I could 
escape. “I thought Jacob was part of a gang and you 
two were fighting.” 

“We made up.” 

“And the gang?” 

“I don’t know — who can understand teenage boys? 
They’re a mystery. But I met Sam Uley and his 
fiancee, Emily. The seemed pretty nice to me.” I 
shrugged. “Must have all been a misunderstanding.” 

His face changed. “I hadn’t heard that he and Emily 
had made it official. That’s nice. Poor girl.” 

“Do you know what happened to her?” 

“Mauled by a bear, up north, during salmon 
spawning season — horrible accident. It was more than 
a year ago now. I heard Sam was really messed up 
over it.” 

“That’s horrible,” I echoed. More than a year ago. I’d 
bet that meant it had happened when there was just 
one werewolf in La Push. I shuddered at the thought 
of how Sam must have felt every time he looked at 
Emily’s face. 

That night, I lay awake for a long time trying to sort 
through the day. I worked my way backward through 
dinner with Billy, Jacob, and Charlie, to the long 
afternoon in the Blacks’ house, waiting anxiously to 
hear something from Jacob, to Emily’s kitchen, to the 
horror of the werewolf fight, to talking with Jacob on 
the beach. 

I thought about what Jacob had said early this 
morning, about hypocrisy. I thought about that for a 

352 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




long time. I didn’t like to think that I was a hypocrite, 
only what was the point of lying to myself? 

I curled into a tight ball. No, Edward wasn’t a killer. 
Even in his darker past, he’d never been a murderer 
of innocents, at least. 

But what if he had been? What if, during the time I 
that I’d known him, he’d been just like any other 
vampire? What if people had been disappearing from 
the woods, just like now? Would that have kept me 
away from him? 

I shook my head sadly. Love is irrational, I reminded 
myself. The more you loved someone, the less sense 
anything made. 

I rolled over and tried to think of something else — and 
I thought of Jacob and his brothers, out running in 
the darkness. I fell asleep imagining the wolves, 
invisible in the night, guarding me from danger. When 
I dreamed, I stood in the forest again, but I didn’t 
wander. I was holding Emily’s scarred hand as we 
faced into the shadows and waited anxiously for our 
werewolves to come home. 



353 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





It was Spring Break in Forks again. When I woke up 
on Monday morning, I lay in bed for a few seconds 
absorbing that. Last spring break, I’d been hunted by 
a vampire, too. I hoped this wasn’t some kind of 
tradition forming. 

Already I was falling into the pattern of things in La 
Push. I’d spent Sunday mostly on the beach, while 
Charlie hung out with Billy at the Blacks’ house. I 
was supposed to be with Jacob, but Jacob had other 
things to do, so I wandered alone, keeping the secret 
from Charlie. 

When Jacob dropped in to check on me, he apologized 
for ditching me so much. He told me his schedule 
wasn’t always this crazy, but until Victoria was 
stopped, the wolves were on red alert. 

When we walked along the beach now, he always held 
my hand. 

This made me brood over what Jared had said, about 
Jacob involving his “girlfriend.” I supposed that that 
was exactly what it looked like from the outside. As 
long as Jake and I knew how it really was, I shouldn’t 
let those kinds of assumptions bother me. And maybe 
they wouldn’t, if I hadn’t known that Jacob would 
have loved for things to be what they appeared. But 
his hand felt nice as it warmed mine, and I didn’t 
protest. 

I worked Tuesday afternoon — Jacob followed me on 
his bike to make sure I arrived safely — and Mike 
noticed. 

354 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Are you dating that kid from La Push? The 
sophomore?” He asked, poorly disguising the 
resentment in his tone. 

I shrugged. “Not in the technical sense of the word. I 
do spent most of my time with Jacob, though. He’s 
my best friend.” 

Mike’s eyes narrowed shrewdly. “Don’t kid yourself, 
Bella. The guy’s head over heels for you.” 

“I know,” I sighed. “Life is complicated.” 

“And girls are cruel,” Mike said under his breath. 

I supposed that was an easy assumption to make, 
too. 

That night, Sam and Emily joined Charlie and me for 
dessert at Billy’s house. Emily brought a cake that 
would have won over a harder man than Charlie. I 
could see, as the conversation flowed naturally 
through a range of casual subjects, that any worries 
Charlie might have harbored about gangs in La Push 
were being dissolved. 

Jake and I skipped out early, to get some privacy. We 
went out to his garage and sat in the Rabbit. Jacob 
leaned his head back, his face drawn with 
exhaustion. 

“You need some sleep, Jake.” 

“I’ll get around to it.” 

He reached over and took my hand. His skin was 
blazing on mine. 



355 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Is that one of those wolf things?” I asked him. “The 
heat, I mean.” 



“Yeah. We run a little warmer than the normal people. 
About one-oh-eight, one-oh-nine. I never get cold 
anymore. I could stand like this” — he gestured to his 
bare torso — “in a snowstorm and it wouldn’t bother 
me. The flakes would turn to rain where I stood.” 

“And you all heal fast — that’s a wolf thing, too?” 

“Yeah, wanna see? It’s pretty cool.” His eyes flipped 
open and he grinned. He reached around me to the 
glove compartment and dug around for a minute. His 
hand came out with a pocketknife. 

“No, I do not want to see!” I shouted as soon as I 
realized what he was thinking. “Put that away!” 

Jacob chuckled, but shoved the knife back where it 
belonged. “Fine. It’s a good thing we heal, though. 

You can’t go see just any doctor when you’re running 
a temperature that should mean you’re dead.” 

“No, I guess not.” I thought about that for a minute. “. 

. . And being so big — that’s part of it? Is that why 
you’re all worried about Quil?” 

“That and the fact that Quil’s grandfather says the kid 
could fry an egg on his forehead.” Jacob’s face turned 
hopeless. “It won’t be long now. There’s no exact 
age... it just builds and builds and then suddenly — ” 

He broke off, and it was a moment before he could 
speak again. “Sometimes, if you get really upset or 
something, that can trigger it early. But I wasn’t 
upset about anything — I was happy.” He laughed 
bitterly. “Because of you, mostly. That’s why it didn’t 
happen to me sooner. Instead it just kept on building 
up inside me — I was like a time bomb. You know what 
356 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




set me off? I got back from that movie and Billy said I 
looked weird. That was all, but I just snapped. And 
then I — I exploded. I almost ripped his face off — my 
own father!” He shuddered, and his face paled. 

“Is it really bad, Jake?” I asked anxiously, wishing I 
had some way to help him. “Are you miserable?” 

“No, I’m not miserable,” he told me. “Not anymore. 

Not now that you know. That was hard, before.” He 
leaned over so that his cheek was resting on top of my 
head. 

He was quiet for a moment, and I wondered what he 
was thinking about. Maybe I didn’t want to know. 

“What’s the hardest part?” I whispered, still wishing I 
could help. 

“The hardest part is feeling... out of control,” he said 
slowly. “Feeling like I can’t be sure of myself — like 
maybe you shouldn’t be around me, like maybe 
nobody should. Like I’m a monster who might hurt 
somebody. You’ve seen Emily. Sam lost control of his 
temper for just one second... and she was standing too 
close. And now there’s nothing he can ever do to put 
it right again. I hear his thoughts — I know what that 
feels like.... 

“Who wants to be a nightmare, a monster? 

“And then, the way it comes so easily to me, the way 
I’m better at it than the rest of them — does that make 
me even less human than Embry or Sam? Sometimes 
I’m afraid that I’m losing myself.” 

“Is it hard? To find yourself again?” 



357 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“At first,” he said. “It takes some practice to phase 
back and forth. But it’s easier for me.” 

“Why?” I wondered. 

“Because Ephraim Black was my father’s grandfather, 
and Quil Ateara was my mother’s grandfather.” 

“Quil?” I asked in confusion. 

“His great-grandfather,” Jacob clarified. “The Quil you 
know is my second cousin.” 

“But why does it matter who your great-grandfathers 
are?” 

“Because Ephraim and Quil were in the last pack. 

Levi Uley was the third. It’s in my blood on both sides. 
I never had a chance. Like Quil doesn’t have a 
chance.” 

His expression was bleak. 

“What’s the very best part?” I asked, hoping to cheer 
him up. 

“The best part,” he said, suddenly smiling again, “is 
the speed.” 

“Better than the motorcycles?” 

He nodded, enthusiastic. “There’s no comparison.” 
“How fast can you...?” 

“Run?” he finished my question. “Fast enough. What 
can I measure it by? We caught... what was his name? 
Laurent? I imagine that means more to you than it 
would to someone else.” 

358 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It did mean something to me. I couldn’t imagine 
that — the wolves running faster than a vampire. 

When the Cullens ran, they all but turned invisible 
with speed. 

“So, tell me something I don’t know,” he said. 
“Something about vampires. How did you stand it, 
being around them? Didn’t it creep you out?” 

“No,” I said curtly. 

My tone made him thoughtful for a moment. 

“Say, why’d your bloodsucker kill that James, 
anyway?” he asked suddenly. 

“James was trying to kill me — it was like a game for 
him. He lost. Do you remember last spring when I 
was in the hospital down in Phoenix?” 

Jacob sucked in a breath. “He got that close?” 

“He got very, very close.” I stroked my scar. Jacob 
noticed, because he held the hand I moved. 

“What’s that?” He traded hands, examining my right. 
“This is your funny scar, the cold one.” He looked at it 
closer, with new eyes, and gasped. 

“Yes, it’s what you think it is,” I said. “James bit me.” 

His eyes bulged, and his face turned a strange, sallow 
color under the russet surface. He looked like he was 
about to be sick. 

“But if he bit you...? Shouldn’t you be...?” He choked. 

“Edward saved me twice,” I whispered. “He sucked the 
venom out — you know, like with a rattlesnake.” I 

359 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




twitched as the pain lashed around the edges of the 
hole. 



But I wasn’t the only one twitching. I could feel 
Jacob’s whole body trembling next to mine. Even the 
car shook. 

“Careful, Jake. Easy. Calm down.” 

“Yeah,” he panted. “Calm.” He shook his head back 
and forth quickly. After a moment, only his hands 
were shaking. 

“You okay?” 

“Yeah, almost. Tell me something else. Give me 
something else to think about.” 

“What do you want to know?” 

“I don’t know.” He had his eyes closed, concentrating. 
“The extra stuff I guess. Did any of the other Cullens 
have... extra talents? Like the mind reading?” 

I hesitated a second. This felt like a question he 
would ask of his spy, not his friend. But what was the 
point of hiding what I knew? It didn’t matter now, and 
it would help him control himself. 

So I spoke quickly, the image of Emily’s ruined face in 
my mind, and the hair rising on my arms. I couldn’t 
imagine how the russet wolf would fit inside the 
Rabbit — Jacob would tear the whole garage apart if he 
changed now. 

“Jasper could... sort of control the emotions of the 
people around him. Not in a bad way, just to calm 
someone down, that kind of thing. It would probably 
help Paul a lot,” I added, teasing weakly. “And then 

360 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice could see things that were going to happen. The 
future, you know, but not absolutely. The things she 
saw would change when someone changed the path 
they were on....” 

Like how she’d seen me dying... and she’d seen me 
becoming one of them. Two things that had not 
happened. And one that never would. My head 
started to spin — I couldn’t seem to pull in enough 
oxygen from the air. No lungs. 

Jacob was entirely in control now, very still beside 
me. 

“Why do you do that?” he asked. He tugged lightly at 
one of my arms, which was bound around my chest, 
and then gave up when it wouldn’t come loose easily. 
I hadn’t even realized I’d moved them. “You do that 
when you’re upset. Why?” 

“It hurts to think about them,” I whispered. “It’s like I 
can’t breathe... like I’m breaking into pieces....” It was 
bizarre how much I could tell Jacob now. We had no 
more secrets. 

He smoothed my hair. “It’s okay, Bella, it’s okay. I 
won’t bring it up again. I’m sorry.” 

“I’m fine.” I gasped. “Happens all the time. Not your 
fault.” 

“We’re a pretty messed-up pair, aren’t we?” Jacob 
said. “Neither one of us can hold our shape together 
right.” 

“Pathetic,” I agreed, still breathless. 

“At least we have each other,” he said, clearly 
comforted by the thought. 

361 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I was comforted, too. “At least there’s that,” I agreed. 

And when we were together, it was fine. But Jacob 
had a horrible, dangerous job he felt compelled to do, 
and so I was often alone, stuck in La Push for safety, 
with nothing to do to keep my mind off any of my 
worries. 

I felt awkward, always taking up space at Billy’s. I did 
some studying for another Calculus test that was 
coming up next week, but I could only look at math 
for so long. When I didn’t have something obvious to 
do in my hands, I felt like I ought to be making 
conversation with Billy — the pressure of normal 
societal rules. But Billy wasn’t one for filling up the 
long silences, and so the awkwardness continued. 

I tried hanging out at Emily’s place Wednesday 
afternoon, for a change. At first it was kind of nice. 
Emily was a cheerful person who never sat still. I 
drifted behind her while she flitted around her little 
house and yard, scrubbing at the spotless floor, 
pulling a tiny weed, fixing a broken hinge, tugging a 
string of wool through an ancient loom, and always 
cooking, too. She complained lightly about the 
increase in the boys’ appetites from all their extra 
running, but it was easy to see she didn’t mind taking 
care of them. It wasn’t hard to be with her — after all, 
we were both wolf girls now. 

But Sam checked in after I’d been there for a few 
hours. I only stayed long enough to ascertain that 
Jacob was fine and there was no news, and then I 
had to escape. The aura of love and contentment that 
surrounded them was harder to take in concentrated 
doses, with no one else around to dilute it. 



362 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




So that left me wandering the beach, pacing the 
length of the rocky crescent back and forth, again and 
again. 

Alone time wasn’t good for me. Thanks to the new 
honesty with Jacob, I’d been talking and thinking 
about the Cullens way too much. No matter how I 
tried to distract myself — and I had plenty to think of: I 
was honestly and desperately worried about Jacob 
and his wolf-brothers, I was terrified for Charlie and 
the others who thought they were hunting animals, I 
was getting in deeper and deeper with Jacob without 
ever having consciously decided to progress in that 
direction and I didn’t know what to do about it — none 
of these very real, very deserving of thought, very 
pressing concerns could take my mind off the pain in 
my chest for long. Eventually, I couldn’t even walk 
anymore, because I couldn’t breathe. I sat down on a 
patch of semidry rocks and curled up in a ball. 

Jacob found me like that, and I could tell from his 
expression that he understood. 

“Sorry,” he said right away. He pulled me up from the 
ground and wrapped both arms around my 
shoulders. I hadn’t realized that I was cold until then. 
His warmth made me shudder, but at least I could 
breathe with him there. 

“I’m ruining your spring break,” Jacob accused 
himself as we walked back up the beach. 

“No, you’re not. I didn’t have any plans. I don’t think I 
like spring breaks, anyway.” 

“I’ll take tomorrow morning off. The others can run 
without me. We’ll do something fun.” 



363 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The word seemed out of place in my life right now, 
barely comprehensible, bizarre. “Fun?” 

“Fun is exactly what you need. Hmm . . .” he gazed 
out across the heaving gray waves, deliberating. As 
his eyes scanned the horizon, he had a flash of 
inspiration. 

“Got it!” he crowed. “Another promise to keep.” 

“What are you talking about?” 

He let go of my hand and pointed toward the southern 
edge of the beach, where the flat, rocky half-moon 
dead-ended against the sheer sea cliffs. I stared, 
uncomprehending. 

“Didn’t I promise to take you cliff diving?” 

I shivered. 

“Yeah, it’ll be pretty cold — not as cold as it is today. 
Can you feel the weather changing? The pressure? It 
will be warmer tomorrow. You up for it?” 

The dark water did not look inviting, and, from this 
angle, the cliffs looked even higher than before. 

But it had been days since I’d heard Edward’s voice. 
That was probably part of the problem. I was addicted 
to the sound of my delusions. It made things worse if 
I went too long without them. Jumping off a cliff was 
certain to remedy that situation. 

“Sure, I’m up for it. Fun.” 

“It’s a date,” he said, and draped his arm around my 
shoulders. 



364 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay — now let’s go get you some sleep.” I didn’t like 
the way the circles under his eyes were beginning to 
look permanently etched onto his skin. 

I woke early the next morning and snuck a change of 
clothes out to the truck. I had a feeling that Charlie 
would approve of today’s plan just about as much as 
he would approve of the motorcycle. 

The idea of a distraction from all my worries had me 
almost excited. Maybe it would be fun. A date with 
Jacob, a date with Edward... I laughed darkly to 
myself. Jake could say what he wanted about us 
being a messed-up pair — I was the one who was truly 
messed up. I made the werewolf seem downright 
normal. 

I expected Jacob to meet me out front, the way he 
usually did when my noisy truck announced my 
arrival. When he didn’t, I guessed that he might still 
be sleeping. I would wait — let him get as much rest as 
he could. He needed his sleep, and that would give 
the day time to warm a bit more. Jake had been right 
about the weather, though; it had changed in the 
night. A thick layer of clouds pressed heavily on the 
atmosphere now, making it almost sultry; it was 
warm and close under the gray blanket. I left my 
sweater in the truck. 

I knocked quietly on the door. 

“C’mon in, Bella,” Billy said. 

He was at the kitchen table, eating cold cereal. 

“Jake sleeping?” 

“Er, no.” He set his spoon down, and his eyebrows 
pulled together. 

365 I P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What happened?” I demanded. I could tell from his 
expression that something had. 

“Embry, Jared, and Paul crossed a fresh trail early 
this morning. Sam and Jake took off to help. Sam 
was hopeful — she’s hedged herself in beside the 
mountains. He thinks they have a good chance to 
finish this.” 

“Oh, no, Billy,” I whispered. “Oh, no.” 

He chuckled, deep and low. “Do you really like La 
Push so well that you want to extend your sentence 
here?” 

“Don’t make jokes, Billy. This is too scary for that.” 

“You’re right,” he agreed, still complacent. His ancient 
eyes were impossible to read. “This one’s tricky.” 

I bit my lip. 

“It’s not as dangerous for them as you think it is. Sam 
knows what he’s doing. You’re the one that you 
should worry about. The vampire doesn’t want to fight 
them. She’s just trying to find a way around them... to 
you.” 

“How does Sam know what he’s doing?” I demanded, 
brushing aside his concern for me. “They’ve only 
killed just the one vampire — that could have been 
luck.” 

“We take what we do very seriously, Bella. Nothing’s 
been forgotten. Everything they need to know has 
been passed down from father to son for generations.” 

That didn’t comfort me the way he probably intended 
it to. The memory of Victoria, wild, catlike, lethal, was 

366 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




too strong in my head. If she couldn’t get around the 
wolves, she would eventually try to go through them. 



Billy went back to his breakfast; I sat down on the 
sofa and flipped aimlessly though the TV channels. 
That didn’t last long. I started to feel closed in by the 
small room, claustrophobic, upset by the fact that I 
couldn’t see out the curtained windows. 

“I’ll be at the beach,” I told Billy abruptly, and hurried 
out the door. 

Being outside didn’t help as much as I’d hoped. The 
clouds pushed down with an invisible weight that 
kept the claustrophobia from easing. The forest 
seemed strangely vacant as I walked toward the 
beach. I didn’t see any animals — no birds, no 
squirrels. I couldn’t hear any birds, either. The silence 
was eerie; there wasn’t even the sound of wind in the 
trees. 

I knew it was all just a product of the weather, but it 
still made me edgy. The heavy, warm pressure of the 
atmosphere was perceptible even to my weak human 
senses, and it hinted at something major in the storm 
department. A glance at the sky backed this up; the 
clouds were churning sluggishly despite the lack of 
breeze on the ground. The closest clouds were a 
smoky gray, but between the cracks I could see 
another layer that was a gruesome purple color. The 
skies had a ferocious plan in store for today. The 
animals must be bunkering down. 

As soon as I reached the beach, I wished I hadn’t 
come — I’d already had enough of this place. I’d been 
here almost every day, wandering alone. Was it so 
much different from my nightmares? But where else 
to go? I trudged down to the driftwood tree, and sat at 
the end so that I could lean against the tangled roots. 
367 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared up at the angry sky broodingly, waiting for 
the first drops to break the stillness. 

I tried not to think about the danger Jacob and his 
friends were in. Because nothing could happen to 
Jacob. The thought was unendurable. I’d lost too 
much already — would fate take the last few shreds of 
peace left behind? That seemed unfair, out of balance. 
But maybe I’d violated some unknown rule, crossed 
some line that had condemned me. Maybe it was 
wrong to be so involved with myths and legends, to 
turn my back on the human world. Maybe... 

No. Nothing would happen to Jacob. I had to believe 
that or I wouldn’t be able to function. 

“Argh!” I groaned, and jumped off the log. I couldn’t 
sit still; it was worse than pacing. 

I’d really been counting on hearing Edward this 
morning. It seemed like that was the one thing that 
might make it bearable to live through this day. The 
hole had been festering lately, like it was getting 
revenge for the times that Jacob’s presence had 
tamed it. The edges burned. 

The waves picked up as I paced, beginning to crash 
against the rocks, but there was still no wind. I felt 
pinned down by the pressure of the storm. Everything 
swirled around me, but it was perfectly still where I 
stood. The air had a faint electric charge — I could feel 
the static in my hair. 

Farther out, the waves were angrier than they were 
along the shore. I could see them battering against 
the line of the cliffs, spraying big white clouds of sea 
foam into the sky. There was still no movement in the 
air, though the clouds roiled more quickly now. It was 
eerie looking — like the clouds were moving by their 
368 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




own will. I shivered, though I knew it was just a trick 
of the pressure. 



The cliffs were a black knife edge against the livid sky. 
Staring at them, I remembered the day Jacob had told 
me about Sam and his “gang.” I thought of the boys — 
the werewolves — throwing themselves into the empty 
air. The image of the falling, spiraling figures was still 
vivid in my mind. I imagined the utter freedom of the 
fall.... I imagined the way Edward’s voice would have 
sounded in my head — furious, velvet, perfect.... The 
burning in my chest flared agonizingly. 

There had to be some way to quench it. The pain was 
growing more and more intolerable by the second. I 
glared at the cliffs and the crashing waves. 

Well, why not? Why not quench it right now? 

Jacob had promised me cliff diving, hadn’t he? Just 
because he was unavailable, should I have to give up 
the distraction I needed so badly — needed even worse 
because Jacob was out risking his life? Risking it, in 
essence, for me. If it weren’t for me, Victoria would 
not be killing people here... just somewhere else, far 
away. If anything happened to Jacob, it would be my 
fault. That realization stabbed deep and had me 
jogging back up to the road toward Billy’s house, 
where my truck waited. 

I knew my way to the lane that passed closest to the 
cliffs, but I had to hunt for the little path that would 
take me out to the ledge. As I followed it, I looked for 
turns or forks, knowing that Jake had planned to 
take me off the lower outcropping rather than the top, 
but the path wound in a thin single line toward the 
brink with no options. I didn’t have time to find 
another way down — the storm was moving in quickly 
now. The wind was finally beginning to touch me, the 
369 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




clouds pressing closer to the ground. Just as I 
reached the place where the dirt path fanned out into 
the stone precipice, the first drops broke through and 
splattered on my face. 

It was not hard to convince myself that I didn’t have 
time to search for another way — I wanted to jump 
from the top. This was the image that had lingered in 
my head. I wanted the long fall that would feel like 
flying. 

I knew that this was the stupidest, most reckless 
thing I had done yet. The thought made me smile. The 
pain was already easing, as if my body knew that 
Edward’s voice was just seconds away.... 

The ocean sounded very far away, somehow farther 
than before, when I was on the path in the trees. I 
grimaced when I thought of the probable temperature 
of the water. But I wasn’t going to let that stop me. 

The wind blew stronger now, whipping the rain into 
eddies around me. 

I stepped out to the edge, keeping my eyes on the 
empty space in front of me. My toes felt ahead blindly, 
caressing the edge of the rock when they encountered 
it. I drew in a deep breath and held it... waiting. 

“Bella.” 

I smiled and exhaled. 

Yes? I didn’t answer out loud, for fear that the sound 
of my voice would shatter the beautiful illusion. He 
sounded so real, so close. It was only when he was 
disapproving like this that I could hear the true 
memory of his voice — the velvet texture and the 



370 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




musical intonation that made up the most perfect of 
all voices. 

“Don’t do this,” he pleaded. 

You wanted me to be human, I reminded him. Well, 
watch me. 

“Please. For me.” 

But you won’t stay with me any other way. 

“Please.” It was just a whisper in the blowing rain that 
tossed my hair and drenched my clothes — making me 
as wet as if this were my second jump of the day. 

I rolled up onto the balls of my feet. 

“No, Bella!” He was angry now, and the anger was so 
lovely. 

I smiled and raised my arms straight out, as if I were 
going to dive, lifting my face into the rain. But it was 
too ingrained from years of swimming at the public 
pool — feet first, first time. I leaned forward, crouching 
to get more spring... 

And I flung myself off the cliff. 

I screamed as I dropped through the open air like a 
meteor, but it was a scream of exhilaration and not 
fear. The wind resisted, trying vainly to fight the 
unconquerable gravity, pushing against me and 
twirling me in spirals like a rocket crashing to the 
earth. 

Yes! The word echoed through my head as I sliced 
through the surface of the water. It was icy, colder 



371 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




than I’d feared, and yet the chill only added to the 
high. 

I was proud of myself as I plunged deeper into the 
freezing black water. I hadn’t had one moment of 
terror — just pure adrenaline. Really, the fall wasn’t 
scary at all. Where was the challenge? 

That was when the current caught me. 

I’d been so preoccupied by the size of the cliffs, by the 
obvious danger of their high, sheer faces, that I hadn’t 
worried at all about the dark water waiting. I never 
dreamed that the true menace was lurking far below 
me, under the heaving surf. 

It felt like the waves were fighting over me, jerking me 
back and forth between them as if determined to 
share by pulling me into halves. I knew the right way 
to avoid a riptide: swim parallel to the beach rather 
than struggling for the shore. But the knowledge did 
me little good when I didn’t know which way the 
shore was. 

I couldn’t even tell which way the surface was. 

The angry water was black in every direction; there 
was no brightness to direct me upward. Gravity was 
all-powerful when it competed with the air, but it had 
nothing on the waves — I couldn’t feel a downward 
pull, a sinking in any direction. Just the battering of 
the current that flung me round and round like a rag 
doll. 

I fought to keep my breath in, to keep my lips locked 
around my last store of oxygen. 

It didn’t surprise me that my delusion of Edward was 
there. He owed me that much, considering that I was 

372 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




dying. I was surprised by how sure that knowledge 
was. I was going to drown. I was drowning. 



“Keep swimming!” Edward begged urgently in my 
head. 

Where? There was nothing but the darkness. There 
was no place to swim to. 

“Stop that!” he ordered. “Don’t you dare give up!” 

The cold of the water was numbing my arms and legs. 
I didn’t feel the buffeting so much as before. It was 
more of just a dizziness now, a helpless spinning in 
the water. 

But I listened to him. I forced my arms to continue 
reaching, my legs to kick harder, though every second 
I was facing a new direction. It couldn’t be doing any 
good. What was the point? 

“Fight!” he yelled. “Damn it, Bella, keep fighting.” 
Why? 

I didn’t want to fight anymore. And it wasn’t the 
lightheadedness, or the cold, or the failure of my arms 
as the muscles gave out in exhaustion, that made me 
content to stay where I was. I was almost happy that 
it was over. This was an easier death than others I’d 
faced. Oddly peaceful. 

I thought briefly of the cliches, about how you were 
suppose to see your life flash before your eyes. I was 
so much luckier. Who wanted to see a rerun, anyway? 

I saw him, and I had no will to fight. It was so clear, 
so much more defined than any memory. My 
subconscious had stored Edward away in flawless 

373 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




detail, saving him for this final moment. I could see 
his perfect face as if he were really there; the exact 
shade of his icy skin, the shape of his lips, the line of 
his jaw, the gold glinting in his furious eyes. He was 
angry, naturally, that I was giving up. His teeth were 
clenched and his nostrils flared with rage. 

“No! Bella, no!” 

My ears were flooded with the freezing water, but his 
voice was clearer than ever. I ignored his words and 
concentrated on the sound of his voice. Why would I 
fight when I was so happy where I was? Even as my 
lungs burned for more air and my legs cramped in the 
icy cold, I was content. I’d forgotten what real 
happiness felt like. 

Happiness. It made the whole dying thing pretty 
bearable. 

The current won at that moment, shoving me 
abruptly against something hard, a rock invisible in 
the gloom. It hit me solidly across the chest, 
slamming into me like an iron bar, and the breath 
whooshed out of my lungs, escaping in a thick cloud 
of silver bubbles. Water flooded down my throat, 
choking and burning. The iron bar seemed to be 
dragging me, pulling me away from Edward, deeper 
into the dark, to the ocean floor. 

Goodbye, I love you, was my last thought. 



374 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





At that moment, my head broke the surface. 

How disorienting. I’d been sure I was sinking. 

The current wouldn’t let up. It was slamming me 
against more rocks; they beat against the center of 
my back sharply, rhythmically, pushing the water 
from my lungs. It gushed out in amazing volume, 
absolute torrents pouring from my mouth and nose. 
The salt burned and my lungs burned and my throat 
was too full of water to catch a breath and the rocks 
were hurting my back. Somehow I stayed in one 
place, though the waves still heaved around me. I 
couldn’t see anything but water everywhere, reaching 
for my face. 

“Breathe!” a voice, wild with anxiety, ordered, and I 
felt a cruel stab of pain when I recognized the voice — 
because it wasn’t Edward’s. 

I could not obey. The waterfall pouring from my 
mouth didn’t stop long enough for me to catch a 
breath. The black, icy water filled my chest, burning. 

The rock smacked into my back again, right between 
my shoulder blades, and another volley of water 
choked its way out of my lungs. 

“Breathe, Bella! C’mon!” Jacob begged. 

Black spots bloomed across my vision, getting wider 
and wider, blocking out the light. 



The rock struck me again. 

375 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



The rock wasn’t cold like the water; it was hot on my 
skin. I realized it was Jacob’s hand, trying to beat the 
water from my lungs. The iron bar that had dragged 
me from the sea was also... warm... My head whirled, 
the black spots covered everything.... 

Was I dying again, then? I didn’t like it — this wasn’t 
as good as the last time. It was only dark now, 
nothing worth looking at here. The sound of the 
crashing waves faded into the black and became a 
quiet, even whoosh that sounded like it was coming 
from the inside of my ears.... 

“Bella?” Jacob asked, his voice still tense, but not as 
wild as before. “Bells, honey, can you hear me?” 

The contents of my head swished and rolled 
sickeningly, like they’d joined the rough water.... 

“How long has she been unconscious?” someone else 
asked. 

The voice that was not Jacob’s shocked me, jarred me 
into a more focused awareness. 

I realized that I was still. There was no tug of the 
current on me — the heaving was inside my head. The 
surface under me was flat and motionless. It felt 
grainy against my bare arms. 

“I don’t know,” Jacob reported, still frantic. His voice 
was very close. Hands — so warm they had to be his — 
brushed wet hair from my cheeks. “A few minutes? It 
didn’t take long to tow her to the beach.” 

The quiet whooshing inside my ears was not the 
waves — it was the air moving in and out of my lungs 
again. Each breath burned — the passageways were as 



376 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




raw as if I’d scrubbed them out with steel wool. But I 
was breathing. 



And I was freezing. A thousand sharp, icy beads were 
striking my face and arms, making the cold worse. 

“She’s breathing. She’ll come around. We should get 
her out of the cold, though. I don’t like the color she’s 
turning....” I recognized Sam’s voice this time. 

“You think it’s okay to move her?” 

“She didn’t hurt her back or anything when she fell?” 

“I don’t know.” 

They hesitated. 

I tried to open my eyes. It took me a minute, but then 
I could see the dark, purple clouds, flinging the 
freezing rain down at me. “Jake?” I croaked. 

Jacob’s face blocked out the sky. “Oh!” he gasped, 
relief washing over his features. His eyes were wet 
from the rain. “Oh, Bella! Are you okay? Can you hear 
me? Do you hurt anywhere?” 

“J-Just m-my throat,” I stuttered, my lips quivering 
from the cold. 

“Let’s get you out of here, then,” Jacob said. He slid 
his arms under me and lifted me without effort — like 
picking up an empty box. His chest was bare and 
warm; he hunched his shoulders to keep the rain off 
of me. My head lolled over his arm. I stared vacantly 
back toward the furious water, beating the sand 
behind him. 

“You got her?” I heard Sam ask. 

377 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, I’ll take it from here. Get back to the hospital. 
I’ll join you later. Thanks, Sam.” 

My head was still rolling. None of his words sunk in 
at first. Sam didn’t answer. There was no sound, and 
I wondered if he were already gone. 

The water licked and writhed up the sand after us as 
Jacob carried me away, like it was angry that I’d 
escaped. As I stared wearily, a spark of color caught 
my unfocused eyes — a small flash of fire was dancing 
on the black water, far out in the bay. The image 
made no sense, and I wondered how conscious I 
really was. My head swirled with the memory of the 
black, churning water — of being so lost that I couldn’t 
find up or down. So lost... but somehow Jacob... 

“How did you find me?” I rasped. 

“I was searching for you,” he told me. He was half- 
jogging through the rain, up the beach toward the 
road. “I followed the tire tracks to your truck, and 
then I heard you scream....” He shuddered. “Why 
would you jump, Bella? Didn’t you notice that it’s 
turning into a hurricane out here? Couldn’t you have 
waited for me?” Anger filled his tone as the relief 
faded. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “It was stupid.” 

“Yeah, it was really stupid,” he agreed, drops of rain 
shaking free of his hair as he nodded. “Look, do you 
mind saving the stupid stuff for when I’m around? I 
won’t be able to concentrate if I think you’re jumping 
off cliffs behind my back.” 

“Sure,” I agreed. “No problem.” I sounded like a chain- 
smoker. I tried to clear my throat — and then winced; 
the throat-clearing felt like stabbing a knife down 

378 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




there. “What happened today? Did you... find her?” It 
was my turn to shudder, though I wasn’t so cold here, 
right next to his ridiculous body heat. 

Jacob shook his head. He was still more running than 
walking as he headed up the road to his house. “No. 
She took off into the water — the bloodsuckers have 
the advantage there. That’s why I raced home — I was 
afraid she was going to double back swimming. You 
spend so much time on the beach....” He trailed off, a 
catch in his throat. 

“Sam came back with you... is everyone else home, 
too?” I hoped they weren’t still out searching for her. 

“Yeah. Sort of.” 

I tried to read his expression, squinting into the 
hammering rain. His eyes were tight with worry or 
pain. 

The words that hadn’t made sense before suddenly 
did. “You said... hospital. Before, to Sam. Is someone 
hurt? Did she fight you?” My voice jumped up an 
octave, sounding strange with the hoarseness. 

“No, no. When we got back, Em was waiting with the 
news. It’s Harry Clearwater. Harry had a heart attack 
this morning.” 

“Harry?” I shook my head, trying to absorb what he 
was staying. “Oh, no! Does Charlie know?” 

“Yeah. He’s over there, too, with my dad.” 

“Is Harry going to be okay?” 

Jacob’s eyes tightened again. “It doesn’t look so great 
right now.” 

379 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Abruptly, I felt really sick with guilt — felt truly 
horrible about the brainless cliff dive. Nobody needed 
to be worrying about me right now. What a stupid 
time to be reckless. 

“What can I do?” I asked. 

At that moment the rain stopped. I hadn’t realized we 
were already back to Jacob’s house until he walked 
through the door. The storm pounded against the 
roof. 

“You can stay here,” Jacob said as he dumped me on 
the short couch. “I mean it — right here. I’ll get you 
some dry clothes.” 

I let my eyes adjust to the dark room while Jacob 
banged around in his bedroom. The cramped front 
room seemed so empty without Billy, almost desolate. 
It was strangely ominous — probably just because I 
knew where he was. 

Jacob was back in seconds. He threw a pile of gray 
cotton at me. “These will be huge on you, but it’s the 
best I’ve got. I’ll, er, step outside so you can change.” 

“Don’t go anywhere. I’m too tired to move yet. Just 
stay with me.” 

Jacob sat on the floor next to me, his back against 
the couch. I wondered when he’d slept last. He looked 
as exhausted as I felt. 

He leaned his head on the cushion next to mine and 
yawned. “Guess I could rest for a minute....” 

His eyes closed. I let mine slide shut, too. 



380 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Poor Harry. Poor Sue. I knew Charlie was going to be 
beside himself. Harry was one of his best friends. 
Despite Jake’s negative take on things, I hoped 
fervently that Harry would pull through. For Charlie’s 
sake. For Sue’s and Leah’s and Seth’s... 

Billy’s sofa was right next to the radiator, and I was 
warm now, despite my soaked clothes. My lungs 
ached in a way that pushed me toward 
unconsciousness rather than keeping me awake. I 
wondered vaguely if it was wrong to sleep... or was I 
getting drowning mixed up with concussions...? 

Jacob began softly snoring, and the sound of it 
soothed like a lullaby. I fell asleep quickly. 

For the first time in a very long time, my dream was 
just a normal dream. Just a blurred wandering 
through old memories — blinding bright visions of the 
Phoenix sun, my mother’s face, a ramshackle tree 
house, a faded quilt, a wall of mirrors, a flame on the 
black water... I forgot each of them as soon as the 
picture changed. 

The last picture was the only one that stuck in my 
head. It was meaningless — just a set on a stage. A 
balcony at night, a painted moon hanging in the sky. 

I watched the girl in her nightdress lean on the railing 
and talk to herself. 

Meaningless... but when I slowly struggled back to 
consciousness, Juliet was on my mind. 

Jacob was still asleep; he’d slumped down to the floor 
and his breathing was deep and even. The house was 
darker now than before, it was black outside the 
window. I was stiff, but warm and almost dry. The 
inside of my throat burned with every breath I took. 



381 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I was going to have to get up — at least to get a drink. 
But my body just wanted to lie here limp, to never 
move again. 

Instead of moving, I thought about Juliet some more. 

I wondered what she would have done if Romeo had 
left her, not because he was banished, but because 
he lost interest? What if Rosalind had given him the 
time of day, and he’d changed his mind? What if, 
instead of marrying Juliet, he’d just disappeared? 

I thought I knew how Juliet would feel. 

She wouldn’t go back to her old life, not really. She 
wouldn’t ever have moved on, I was sure of that. Even 
if she’d lived until she was old and gray, every time 
she closed her eyes, it would have been Romeo’s face 
she saw behind her lids. She would have accepted 
that, eventually. 

I wondered if she would have married Paris in the 
end, just to please her parents, to keep the peace. No, 
probably not, I decided. But then, the story didn’t say 
much about Paris. He was just a stick figure — a 
placeholder, a threat, a deadline to force her hand. 

What if there were more to Paris? 

What if Paris had been Juliet’s friend? Her very best 
friend? What if he was the only one she could confide 
in about the whole devastating thing with Romeo? 

The one person who really understood her and made 
her feel halfway human again? What if he was patient 
and kind? What if he took care of her? What if Juliet 
knew she couldn’t survive without him? What if he 
really loved her, and wanted her to be happy? 



382 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




And... what if she loved Paris? Not like Romeo. 

Nothing like that, of course. But enough that she 
wanted him to be happy, too? 

Jacob’s slow, deep breathing was the only sound in 
the room — like a lullaby hummed to a child, like the 
whisper of a rocking chair, like the ticking of an old 
clock when you had nowhere you needed to go.... It 
was the sound of comfort. 

If Romeo was really gone, never coming back, would it 
have mattered whether or not Juliet had taken Paris 
up on his offer? Maybe she should have tried to settle 
into the leftover scraps of life that were left behind. 
Maybe that would have been as close to happiness as 
she could get. 

I sighed, and then groaned when the sigh scraped my 
throat. I was reading too much into the story. Romeo 
wouldn’t change his mind. That’s why people still 
remembered his name, always twined with hers: 
Romeo and Juliet. That’s why it was a good story. 
“Juliet gets dumped and ends up with Paris” would 
have never been a hit. 

I closed my eyes and drifted again, letting my mind 
wander away from the stupid play I didn’t want to 
think about anymore. I thought about reality 
instead — about jumping off the cliff and what a 
brainless mistake that had been. And not just the 
cliff, but the motorcycles and the whole irresponsible 
Evel Knievel bit. What if something bad happened to 
me? What would that do to Charlie? Harry’s heart 
attack had pushed everything suddenly into 
perspective for me. Perspective that I didn’t want to 
see, because — if I admitted to the truth of it — it would 
mean that I would have to change my ways. Could I 
live like that? 



383 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Maybe. It wouldn’t be easy; in fact, it would be 
downright miserable to give up my hallucinations and 
try to be a grown-up. But maybe I should do it. And 
maybe I could. If I had Jacob. 

I couldn’t make that decision right now. It hurt too 
much. I’d think about something else. 

Images from my ill-considered afternoon stunt rolled 
through my head while I tried to come up with 
something pleasant to think about... the feel of the air 
as I fell, the blackness of the water, the thrashing of 
the current... Ed ward’s face... I lingered there for a 
long time. Jacob’s warm hands, trying to beat life 
back into me... the stinging rain flung down by the 
purple clouds... the strange fire on the waves... 

There was something familiar about that flash of color 
on top of the water. Of course it couldn’t really be 
fire — 

My thoughts were interrupted by the sound of a car 
squelching through the mud on the road outside. I 
heard it stop in front of the house, and doors started 
opening and closing. I thought about sitting up, and 
then decided against that idea. 

Billy’s voice was easily identifiable, but he kept it 
uncharacteristically low, so that it was only a gravelly 
grumble. 

The door opened, and the light flicked on. I blinked, 
momentarily blind. Jake startled awake, gasping and 
jumping to his feet. 

“Sorry,” Billy grunted. “Did we wake you?” 

My eyes slowly focused on his face, and then, as I 
could read his expression, they filled with tears. 

384 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh, no, Billy!” I moaned. 



He nodded slowly, his expression hard with grief. 

Jake hurried to his father and took one of his hands. 
The pain made his face suddenly childlike — it looked 
odd on top of the man’s body. 

Sam was right behind Billy, pushing his chair 
through the door. His normal composure was absent 
from his agonized face. 

“I’m so sorry,” I whispered. 

Billy nodded. “It’s gonna be hard all around.” 

“Where’s Charlie?” 

“Your dad is still at the hospital with Sue. There are a 
lot of... arrangements to be made.” 

I swallowed hard. 

“I’d better get back there,” Sam mumbled, and he 
ducked hastily out the door. 

Billy pulled his hand away from Jacob, and then he 
rolled himself through the kitchen toward his room. 

Jake stared after him for a minute, then came to sit 
on the floor beside me again. He put his face in his 
hands. I rubbed his shoulder, wishing I could think of 
anything to say. 

After a long moment, Jacob caught my hand and held 
it to his face. 

“How are you feeling? Are you okay? I probably 
should have taken you to a doctor or something.” He 
sighed. 

385 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t worry about me,” I croaked. 

He twisted his head to look at me. His eyes were 
rimmed in red. “You don’t look so good.” 

“I don’t feel so good, either, I guess.” 

“I’ll go get your truck and then take you home — you 
probably ought to be there when Charlie gets back.” 

“Right.” 

I lay listlessly on the sofa while I waited for him. Billy 
was silent in the other room. I felt like a peeping tom, 
peering through the cracks at a private sorrow that 
wasn’t mine. 

It didn’t take Jake long. The roar of my truck’s engine 
broke the silence before I expected it. He helped me 
up from the couch without speaking, keeping his arm 
around my shoulder when the cold air outside made 
me shiver. He took the driver’s seat without asking, 
and then pulled me next to his side to keep his arm 
tight around me. I leaned my head against his chest. 

“How will you get home?” I asked. 

“I’m not going home. We still haven’t caught the 
bloodsucker, remember?” 

My next shudder had nothing to do with cold. 

It was a quiet ride after that. The cold air had woken 
me up. My mind was alert, and it was working very 
hard and very fast. 

What if? What was the right thing to do? 



386 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t imagine my life without Jacob now — I 
cringed away from the idea of even trying to imagine 
that. Somehow, he’d become essential to my survival. 
But to leave things the way they were... was that 
cruel, as Mike had accused? 

I remembered wishing that Jacob were my brother. I 
realized now that all I really wanted was a claim on 
him. It didn’t feel brotherly when he held me like this. 
It just felt nice — warm and comforting and familiar. 
Safe. Jacob was a safe harbor. 

I could stake a claim. I had that much within my 
power. 

I’d have to tell him everything, I knew that. It was the 
only way to be fair. I’d have to explain it right, so that 
he’d know I wasn’t settling, that he was much too 
good for me. He already knew I was broken, that part 
wouldn’t surprise him, but he’d need to know the 
extent of it. I’d even have to admit that I was crazy — 
explain about the voices I heard. He’d need to know 
everything before he made a decision. 

But, even as I recognized that necessity, I knew he 
would take me in spite of it all. He wouldn’t even 
pause to think it through. 

I would have to commit to this — commit as much of 
me as there was left, every one of the broken pieces. It 
was the only way to be fair to him. Would I? Could I? 

Would it be so wrong to try to make Jacob happy? 
Even if the love I felt for him was no more than a 
weak echo of what I was capable of, even if my heart 
was far away, wandering and grieving after my fickle 
Romeo, would it be so very wrong? 



387 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob stopped the truck in front of my dark house, 
cutting the engine so it was suddenly silent. Like so 
many other times, he seemed to be in tune with my 
thoughts now. 

He threw his other arm around me, crushing me 
against his chest, binding me to him. Again, this felt 
nice. Almost like being a whole person again. 

I thought he would be thinking of Harry, but then he 
spoke, and his tone was apologetic. “Sorry. I know 
you don’t feel exactly the way I do, Bells. I swear I 
don’t mind. I’m just so glad you’re okay that I could 
sing — and that’s something no one wants to hear.” He 
laughed his throaty laugh in my ear. 

My breathing kicked up a notch, sanding the walls of 
my throat. 

Wouldn’t Edward, indifferent as he might be, want me 
to be as happy as was possible under the 
circumstances? Wouldn’t enough friendly emotion 
linger for him to want that much for me? I thought he 
would. He wouldn’t begrudge me this: giving just a 
small bit of the love he didn’t want to my friend 
Jacob. After all, it wasn’t the same love at all. 

Jake pressed his warm cheek against the top of my 
hair. 

If I turned my face to the side — if I pressed my lips 
against his bare shoulder... I knew without any doubt 
exactly what would follow. It would be very easy. 

There would be no need for explanations tonight. 

But could I do it? Could I betray my absent heart to 
save my pathetic life? 



388 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Butterflies assaulted my stomach as I thought about 
turning my head. 

And then, as clearly as if I were in immediate danger, 
Edward’s velvet voice whispered in my ear. 

“Be happy,” he told me. 

I froze. 

Jacob felt me stiffen and released me automatically, 
reaching for the door. 

Wait, I wanted to say. Just a minute. But I was still 
locked in place, listening to the echo of Edward’s 
voice in my head. 

Storm-cooled air blew through the cab of the truck. 

“OH!” The breath whooshed out of Jacob like someone 
had punched him in the gut. “Holy crap!” 

He slammed the door and twisted the keys in the 
ignition in the same moment. His hands were shaking 
so hard I didn’t know how he managed it. 

“What’s wrong?” 

He revved the engine too fast; it sputtered and 
faltered. 

“Vampire,” he spit out. 

The blood rushed from my head and left me dizzy. 
“How do you know?” 

“Because I can smell it! Dammit!” 



389 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob’s eyes were wild, raking the dark street. He 
barely seemed aware of the tremors that were rolling 
through his body. “Phase or get her out of here?” he 
hissed at himself. 

He looked down at me for a split second, taking in my 
horror-struck eyes and white face, and then he was 
scanning the street again. “Right. Get you out.” 

The engine caught with a roar. The tires squealed as 
he spun the truck around, turning toward our only 
escape. The headlights washed across the pavement, 
lit the front line of the black forest, and finally glinted 
off a car parked across the street from my house. 

“Stop!” I gasped. 

It was a black car — a car I knew. I might be the 
furthest thing from an autophile, but I could tell you 
everything about that particular car. It was a 
Mercedes S55 AMG. I knew the horsepower and the 
color of the interior. I knew the feel of the powerful 
engine purring through the frame. I knew the rich 
smell of the leather seats and the way the extra-dark 
tint made noon look like dusk through those 
windows. 

It was Carlisle’s car. 

“Stop!” I cried again, louder this time, because Jacob 
was gunning the truck down the street. 

“What?!” 

“It’s not Victoria. Stop, stop! I want to go back.” 

He stomped on the brake so hard I had to catch 
myself against the dashboard. 



390 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What?” he asked again, aghast. He stared at me with 
horror in his eyes. 

“It’s Carlisle’s car! It’s the Cullens. I know it.” 

He watched dawn break across my face, and a violent 
tremor rocked his frame. 

“Hey, calm down, Jake. It’s okay. No danger, see? 
Relax.” 

“Yeah, calm,” he panted, putting his head down and 
closing his eyes. While he concentrated on not 
exploding into a wolf, I stared out the back window at 
the black car. 

It was just Carlisle, I told myself. Don’t expect 
anything more. Maybe Esme...Stop right there, I told 
myself. Just Carlisle. That was plenty. More than I’d 
ever hoped to have again. 

“There’s a vampire in your house,” Jacob hissed. “And 
you want to go back?” 

I glanced at him, ripping my unwilling eyes off the 
Mercedes — terrified that it would disappear the 
second I looked away. 

“Of course,” I said, my voice blank with surprise at 
his question. Of course I wanted to go back. 

Jacob’s face hardened while I stared at him, 
congealing into the bitter mask that I’d thought was 
gone for good. Just before he had the mask in place, I 
caught the spasm of betrayal that flashed in his eyes. 
His hands were still shaking. He looked ten years 
older than me. 



391 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He took a deep breath. “You’re sure it’s not a trick?” 
he asked in a slow, heavy voice. 

“It’s not a trick. It’s Carlisle. Take me back!” 

A shudder rippled through his wide shoulders, but 
his eyes were flat and emotionless. “No.” 

“Jake, it’s okay — ” 

“No. Take yourself back, Bella.” His voice was a slap — 
I flinched as the sound of it struck me. His jaw 
clenched and unclenched. 

“Look, Bella,” he said in the same hard voice. “I can’t 
go back. Treaty or no treaty, that’s my enemy in 
there.” 

“It’s not like that—” 

“I have to tell Sam right away. This changes things. 

We can’t be caught on their territory.” 

“Jake, it’s not a war!” 

He didn’t listen. He put the truck in neutral and 
jumped out the door, leaving it running. 

“Bye, Bella,” he called back over his shoulder. “I really 
hope you don’t die.” He sprinted into the darkness, 
shaking so hard that his shape seemed blurred; he 
disappeared before I could open my mouth to call him 
back. 

Remorse pinned me against the seat for one long 
second. What had I just done to Jacob? 

But remorse couldn’t hold me very long. 



392 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I slid across the seat and put the truck back in drive. 
My hands were shaking almost as hard as Jake’s had 
been, and this took a minute of concentration. Then I 
carefully turned the truck around and drove it back 
to my house. 

It was very dark when I turned off the headlights. 
Charlie had left in such a hurry that he’d forgotten to 
leave the porch lamp on. I felt a pang of doubt, 
staring at the house, deep in shadow. What if it was a 
trick? 

I looked back at the black car, almost invisible in the 
night. No. I knew that car. 

Still, my hands were shaking even worse than before 
as I reached for the key above the door. When I 
grabbed the doorknob to unlock it, it twisted easily 
under my hand. I let the door fall open. The hallway 
was black. 

I wanted to call out a greeting, but my throat was too 
dry. I couldn’t quite seem to catch my breath. 

I took a step inside and fumbled for the light switch. 

It was so black — like the black water... Where was that 
switch? 

Just like the black water, with the orange flame 
flickering impossibly on top of it. Flame that couldn’t 
be a fire, but what then...? My fingers traced the wall, 
still searching, still shaking — 

Suddenly, something Jacob had told me this 
afternoon echoed in my head, finally sinking in.... She 
took off into the water, he’d said. The bloodsuckers 
have the advantage there. That’s why I raced home — I 
was afraid she was going to double back swimming. 



393 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My hand froze in its searching, my whole body froze 
into place, as I realized why I recognized the strange 
orange color on the water. 

Victoria’s hair, blowing wild in the wind, the color of 
fire... 

She’d been right there. Right there in the harbor with 
me and Jacob. If Sam hadn’t been there, if it had 
been just the two of us...? I couldn’t breathe or move. 

The light flicked on, though my frozen hand had still 
not found the switch. 

I blinked into the sudden light, and saw that someone 
was there, waiting for me. 



394 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





Unnaturally still and white, with her large black eyes 
intent on my face, my visitor waited perfectly 
motionless in the center of the hall, beautiful beyond 
imagining. 

My knees trembled for a second, and I nearly fell. 

Then I hurled myself at her. 

“Alice, oh, Alice!” I cried, as I slammed into her. 

I’d forgotten how hard she was; it was like running 
headlong into a wall of cement. 

“Bella?” There was a strange mingling of relief and 
confusion in her voice. 

I locked my arms around her, gasping to inhale as 
much of the scent of her skin as possible. It wasn’t 
like anything else — not floral or spice, citrus or musk. 
No perfume in the world could compare. My memory 
hadn’t done it justice. 

I didn’t notice when the gasping turned into 
something else — I only realized I was sobbing when 
Alice dragged me to the living room couch and pulled 
me into her lap. It was like curling up into a cool 
stone, but a stone that was contoured comfortingly to 
the shape of my body. She rubbed my back in a 
gentle rhythm, waiting for me to get control of myself. 

“I’m... sorry,” I blubbered. “I’m just... so happy... to see 
you!” 

“It’s okay, Bella. Everything’s okay.” 

395 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Yes,” I bawled. And, for once, it seemed that way. 

Alice sighed. “I’d forgotten how exuberant you are,” 
she said, and her tone was disapproving. 

I looked up at her through my streaming eyes. Alice’s 
neck was tight, straining away from me, her lips 
pressed together firmly. Her eyes were black as pitch. 

“Oh,” I puffed, as I realized the problem. She was 
thirsty. And I smelled appetizing. It had been a while 
since I’d had to think about that kind of thing. 

“Sorry.” 

“It’s my own fault. It’s been too long since I hunted. I 
shouldn’t let myself get so thirsty. But I was in a 
hurry today.” The look she directed at me then was a 
glare. “Speaking of which, would you like to explain to 
me how you’re alive?” 

That brought me up short and stopped the sobs. I 
realized what must have happened immediately, and 
why Alice was here. 

I swallowed loudly. “You saw me fall.” 

“No,” she disagreed, her eyes narrowing. “I saw you 
jump.” 

I pursed my lips as I tried to think of an explanation 
that wouldn’t sound nuts. 

Alice shook her head. “I told him this would happen, 
but he didn’t believe me. ‘Bella promised,”’ her voice 
imitated his so perfectly that I froze in shock while the 
pain ripped through my torso. “‘Don’t be looking for 
her future, either,”’ she continued to quote him. 
‘“We’ve done enough damage.’ 



396 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“But just because I’m not looking, doesn’t mean I 
don’t see,” she went on. “I wasn’t keeping tabs on 
you, I swear, Bella. It’s just that I’m already attuned 
to you... when I saw you jumping, I didn’t think, I just 
got on a plane. I knew I would be too late, but I 
couldn’t do nothing. And then I get here, thinking 
maybe I could help Charlie somehow, and you drive 
up.” She shook her head, this time in confusion. Her 
voice was strained. “I saw you go into the water and I 
waited and waited for you to come up, but you didn’t. 
What happened? And how could you do that to 
Charlie? Did you stop to think what this would do to 
him? And my brother? Do you have any idea what 
Edward — ” 

I cut her off then, as soon as she said his name. I’d let 
her go on, even after I realized the misunderstanding 
she was under, just to hear the perfect bell tone of 
her voice. But it was time to interrupt. 

“Alice, I wasn’t committing suicide.” 

She eyed me dubiously. “Are you saying you didn’t 
jump off a cliff?” 

“No, but...” I grimaced. “It was for recreational 
purposes only.” 

Her expression hardened. 

“I’d seen some of Jacob’s friends cliff diving,” I 
insisted. “It looked like... fun, and I was bored....” 

She waited. 

“I didn’t think about how the storm would affect the 
currents. Actually, I didn’t think about the water 
much at all.” 



397 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice didn’t buy it. I could see that she still thought I 
had been trying to kill myself. I decided to redirect. 

“So if you saw me go in, why didn’t you see Jacob?” 

She cocked her head to the side, distracted. 

I continued. “It’s true that I probably would have 
drowned if Jacob hadn’t jumped in after me. Well, 
okay, there’s no probably about it. But he did, and he 
pulled me out, and I guess he towed me back to 
shore, though I was kind of out for that part. It 
couldn’t have been more than a minute that I was 
under before he grabbed me. How come you didn’t see 
that?” 

She frowned in perplexity. “Someone pulled you out?” 
“Yes. Jacob saved me.” 

I watched curiously as an enigmatic range of 
emotions flitted across her face. Something was 
bothering her — her imperfect vision? But I wasn’t 
sure. Then she deliberately leaned in and sniffed my 
shoulder. 

I froze. 

“Don’t be ridiculous,” she muttered, sniffing at me 
some more. 

“What are you doing?” 

She ignored my question. “Who was with you out 
there just now? It sounded like you were arguing.” 

“Jacob Black. He’s... sort of my best friend, I guess. At 
least, he was . . .” I thought of Jacob’s angry, betrayed 
face, and wondered what he was to me now. 



398 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice nodded, seeming preoccupied. 

“What?” 

“I don’t know,” she said. “I’m not sure what it means.” 
“Well, I’m not dead, at least.” 

She rolled her eyes. “He was a fool to think you could 
survive alone. I’ve never seen anyone so prone to life- 
threatening idiocy.” 

“I survived,” I pointed out. 

She was thinking of something else. “So, if the 
currents were too much for you, how did this Jacob 
manage?” 

“Jacob is... strong.” 

She heard the reluctance in my voice, and her 
eyebrows rose. 

I gnawed on my lip for a second. Was this a secret, or 
not? And if it was, then who was my greatest 
allegiance to? Jacob, or Alice? 

It was too hard to keep secrets, I decided. Jacob knew 
everything, why not Alice, too? 

“See, well, he’s... sort of a werewolf,” I admitted in a 
rush. “The Quileutes turn into wolves when there are 
vampires around. They know Carlisle from a long time 
ago. Were you with Carlisle back then?” 

Alice gawked at me for a moment, and then recovered 
herself, blinking rapidly. “Well, I guess that explains 
the smell,” she muttered. “But does it explain what I 



399 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




didn’t see?” She frowned, her porcelain forehead 
creasing. 

“The smell?” I repeated. 

“You smell awful,” she said absently, still frowning. “A 
werewolf? Are you sure about that?” 

“Very sure,” I promised, wincing as I remembered 
Paul and Jacob fighting in the road. “I guess you 
weren’t with Carlisle the last time there were 
werewolves here in Forks?” 

“No. I hadn’t found him yet.” Alice was still lost in 
thought. Suddenly, her eyes widened, and she turned 
to stare at me with a shocked expression. “Your best 
friend is a werewolf?” 

I nodded sheepishly. 

“How long has this been going on?” 

“Not long,” I said, my voice sounding defensive. “He’s 
only been a werewolf for just a few weeks.” 

She glowered at me. “A young werewolf? Even worse! 
Edward was right — you’re a magnet for danger. 
Weren’t you supposed to be staying out of trouble?” 

“There’s nothing wrong with werewolves,” I grumbled, 
stung by her critical tone. 

“Until they lose their tempers.” She shook her head 
sharply from side to side. “Leave it to you, Bella. 
Anyone else would be better off when the vampires 
left town. But you have to start hanging out with the 
first monsters you can find.” 



400 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t want to argue with Alice — I was still trembling 
with joy that she was really, truly here, that I could 
touch her marble skin and hear her wind-chime 
voice — but she had it all wrong. 

“No, Alice, the vampires didn’t really leave — not all of 
them, anyway. That’s the whole trouble. If it weren’t 
for the werewolves, Victoria would have gotten me by 
now. Well, if it weren’t for Jake and his friends, 
Laurent would have gotten me before she could, I 
guess, so — ” 

“Victoria?” she hissed. “Laurent?” 

I nodded, a teensy bit alarmed by the expression in 
her black eyes. I pointed at my chest. “Danger 
magnet, remember?” 

She shook her head again. “Tell me everything — start 
at the beginning.” 

I glossed over the beginning, skipping the motorcycles 
and the voices, but telling her everything else right up 
to today’s misadventure. Alice didn’t like my thin 
explanation about boredom and the cliffs, so I hurried 
on to the strange flame I’d seen on the water and 
what I thought it meant. Her eyes narrowed almost to 
slits at that part. It was strange to see her look so... so 
dangerous — like a vampire. I swallowed hard and 
went on with the rest about Harry. 

She listened to my story without interrupting. 
Occasionally, she would shake her head, and the 
crease in her forehead deepened until it looked like it 
was carved permanently into the marble of her skin. 
She didn’t speak and, finally, I fell quiet, struck again 
by the borrowed grief at Harry’s passing. I thought of 
Charlie; he would be home soon. What condition 
would he be in? 

401 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Our leaving didn’t do you any good at all, did it?” 
Alice murmured. 

I laughed once — it was a slightly hysterical sound. 
“That was never the point, though, was it? It’s not like 
you left for my benefit.” 

Alice scowled at the floor for a moment. “Well... I guess 
I acted impulsively today. I probably shouldn’t have 
intruded.” 

I could feel the blood draining from my face. My 
stomach dropped. “Don’t go, Alice,” I whispered. My 
fingers locked around the collar of her white shirt and 
I began to hyperventilate. “Please don’t leave me.” 

Her eyes opened wider. “All right,” she said, 
enunciating each word with slow precision. “I’m not 
going anywhere tonight. Take a deep breath.” 

I tried to obey, though I couldn’t quite locate my 
lungs. 

She watched my face while I concentrated on my 
breathing. She waited till I was calmer to comment. 

“You look like hell, Bella.” 

“I drowned today,” I reminded her. 

“It goes deeper than that. You’re a mess.” 

I flinched. “Look, I’m doing my best.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“It hasn’t been easy. I’m working on it.” 



She frowned. “I told him,” she said to herself. 

402 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alice,” I sighed. “What did you think you were going 
to find? I mean, besides me dead? Did you expect to 
find me skipping around and whistling show tunes? 
You know me better than that.” 

“I do. But I hoped.” 

“Then I guess I don’t have the corner on the idiocy 
market.” 

The phone rang. 

“That has to be Charlie,” I said, staggering to my feet. 
I grabbed Alice’s stone hand and dragged her with me 
to the kitchen. I wasn’t about to let her out of my 
sight. 

“Charlie?” I answered the phone. 

“No, it’s me,” Jacob said. 

“Jake!” 

Alice scrutinized my expression. 

“Just making sure you were still alive,” Jacob said 
sourly. 

“I’m fine. I told you that it wasn’t — ” 

“Yeah. I got it. ’Bye.” 

Jacob hung up on me. 

I sighed and let my head hang back, staring at the 
ceiling. “That’s going to be a problem.” 

Alice squeezed my hand. “They aren’t excited I’m 
here.” 

403 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Not especially. But it’s none of their business 
anyway.” 

Alice put her arm around me. “So what do we do 
now?” she mused. She seemed to talk to herself for a 
moment. “Things to do. Loose ends to tie.” 

“What things to do?” 

Her face was suddenly careful. “I don’t know for 
sure... I need to see Carlisle.” 

Would she leave so soon? My stomach dropped. 

“Could you stay?” I begged. “Please? For just a little 
while. I’ve missed you so much.” My voice broke. 

“If you think that’s a good idea.” Her eyes were 
unhappy. 

“I do. You can stay here — Charlie would love that.” 

“I have a house, Bella.” 

I nodded, disappointed but resigned. She hesitated, 
studying me. 

“Well, I need to go get a suitcase of clothes, at the 
very least.” 

I threw my arms around her. “Alice, you’re the best!” 

“And I think I’ll need to hunt. Immediately,” she 
added in a strained voice. 

“Oops.” I took a step back. 

“Can you stay out of trouble for one hour?” she asked 
skeptically. Then, before I could answer, she held up 

404 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




one finger and closed her eyes. Her face went smooth 
and blank for a few seconds. 

And then her eyes opened and she answered her own 
question. “Yes, you’ll be fine. For tonight, anyway.” 
She grimaced. Even making faces, she looked like an 
angel. 

“You’ll come back?” I asked in a small voice. 

“I promise — one hour.” 

I glanced at the clock over the kitchen table. She 
laughed and leaned in quickly to kiss me on the 
cheek. Then she was gone. 

I took a deep breath. Alice would be back. I suddenly 
felt so much better. 

I had plenty to do to keep myself busy while I waited. 
A shower was definitely first on the agenda. I sniffed 
my shoulders as I undressed, but I couldn’t smell 
anything but the brine and seaweed scent of the 
ocean. I wondered what Alice had meant about me 
smelling bad. 

When I was cleaned up, I went back to the kitchen. I 
couldn’t see any signs that Charlie had eaten 
recently, and he would probably be hungry when he 
got back. I hummed tunelessly to myself as I moved 
around the kitchen. 

While Thursday’s casserole rotated in the microwave, 
I made up the couch with sheets and an old pillow. 
Alice wouldn’t need it, but Charlie would need to see 
it. I was careful not to watch the clock. There was no 
reason to start myself panicking; Alice had promised. 



405 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I hurried through my dinner, not tasting it — just 
feeling the ache as it slid down my raw throat. Mostly 
I was thirsty; I must have drunk a half gallon of water 
by the time I was finished. All the salt in my system 
had dehydrated me. 

I went to go try to watch TV while I waited. 

Alice was already there, sitting on her improvised bed. 
Her eyes were a liquid butterscotch. She smiled and 
patted the pillow. “Thanks.” 

“You’re early,” I said, elated. 

I sat down next to her and leaned my head on her 
shoulder. She put her cold arms around me and 
sighed. 

“Bella. What are we going to do with you?” 

“I don’t know,” I admitted. “I really have been trying 
my hardest.” 

“I believe you.” 

It was silent. 

“Does — does he ...” I took a deep breath. It was 
harder to say his name out loud, even though I was 
able to think it now. “Does Edward know you’re 
here?” I couldn’t help asking. It was my pain, after all. 
I’d deal with it when she was gone, I promised myself, 
and felt sick at the thought. 

“No.” 

There was only one way that could be true. “He’s not 
with Carlisle and Esme?” 



406 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“He checks in every few months.” 



“Oh.” He must still be out enjoying his distractions. I 
focused my curiosity on a safer topic. “You said you 
flew here.... Where did you come from?” 

“I was in Denali. Visiting Tanya’s family.” 

“Is Jasper here? Did he come with you?” 

She shook her head. “He didn’t approve of my 
interfering. We promised....” she trailed off, and then 
her tone changed. “And you think Charlie won’t mind 
my being here?” she asked, sounding worried. 

“Charlie thinks you’re wonderful, Alice.” 

“Well, we’re about to find out.” 

Sure enough, a few seconds later I heard the cruiser 
pull into the driveway. I jumped up and hurried to 
open the door. 

Charlie trudged slowly up the walk, his eyes on the 
ground and his shoulders slumped. I walked forward 
to meet him; he didn’t even see me until I hugged him 
around the waist. He embraced me back fiercely. 

“I’m so sorry about Harry, Dad.” 

“I’m really going to miss him,” Charlie mumbled. 

“How’s Sue doing?” 

“She seems dazed, like she hasn’t grasped it yet. 
Sam’s staying with her....” The volume of his voice 
faded in and out. “Those poor kids. Leah’s just a year 
older than you, and Seth is only fourteen....” He 
shook his head. 

407 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He kept his arms tight around me as he started 
toward the door again. 

“Um, Dad?” I figured I’d better warn him. “You’ll never 
guess who’s here.” 

He looked at me blankly. His head swiveled around, 
and he spied the Mercedes across the street, the 
porch light reflecting off the glossy black paint. Before 
he could react, Alice was in the doorway. 

“Hi, Charlie,” she said in a subdued voice. “I’m sorry I 
came at such a bad time.” 

“Alice Cullen?” he peered at the slight figure in front 
of him as if he doubted what his eyes were telling 
him. “Alice, is that you?” 

“It’s me,” she confirmed. “I was in the neighborhood.” 
“Is Carlisle . . .?” 

“No, I’m alone.” 

Both Alice and I knew he wasn’t really asking about 
Carlisle. His arm tightened over my shoulder. 

“She can stay here, can’t she?” I pleaded. “I already 
asked her.” 

“Of course,” Charlie said mechanically. “We’d love to 
have you, Alice.” 

“Thank you, Charlie. I know it’s horrid timing.” 

“No, it’s fine, really. I’m going to be really busy doing 
what I can for Harry’s family; it will be nice for Bella 
to have some company.” 



408 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“There’s dinner for you on the table, Dad,” I told him. 



“Thanks, Bell.” He gave me one more squeeze before 
he shuffled toward the kitchen. 

Alice went back to the couch, and I followed her. This 
time, she was the one to pull me against her 
shoulder. 

“You look tired.” 

“Yeah,” I agreed, and shrugged. “Near-death 
experiences do that to me.... So, what does Carlisle 
think of you being here?” 

“He doesn’t know. He and Esme were on a hunting 
trip. I’ll hear from him in a few days, when he gets 
back.” 

“You won’t tell him, though... when he checks in 
again?” I asked. She knew I didn’t mean Carlisle now. 

“No. He’d bite my head off,” Alice said grimly. 

I laughed once, and then sighed. 

I didn’t want to sleep. I wanted to stay up all night 
talking to Alice. And it didn’t make sense for me to be 
tired, what with crashing on Jacob’s couch all day. 

But drowning really had taken a lot out of me, and 
my eyes wouldn’t stay open. I rested my head on her 
stone shoulder, and drifted into a more peaceful 
oblivion than I had any hope of. 

I woke early, from a deep and dreamless sleep, feeling 
well-rested, but stiff. I was on the couch tucked under 
the blankets I’d laid out for Alice, and I could hear her 
and Charlie talking in the kitchen. It sounded like 
Charlie was fixing her breakfast. 

409 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“How bad was it, Charlie?” Alice asked softly, and at 
first I thought they were talking about the 
Clearwaters. 

Charlie sighed. “Real bad.” 

“Tell me about it. I want to know exactly what 
happened when we left.” 

There was a pause while a cupboard door was closed 
and a dial on the stove was clicked off. I waited, 
cringing. 

“I’ve never felt so helpless,” Charlie began slowly. “I 
didn’t know what to do. That first week — I thought I 
was going to have to hospitalize her. She wouldn’t eat 
or drink, she wouldn’t move. Dr. Gerandy was 
throwing around words like ‘catatonic,’ but I didn’t let 
him up to see her. I was afraid it would scare her.” 

“She snapped out of it though?” 

“I had Renee come to take her to Florida. I just didn’t 
want to be the one... if she had to go to a hospital or 
something. I hoped being with her mother would help. 
But when we started packing her clothes, she woke 
up with a vengeance. I’ve never seen Bella throw a fit 
like that. She was never one for the tantrums, but, 
boy, did she fly into a fury. She threw her clothes 
everywhere and screamed that we couldn’t make her 
leave — and then she finally started crying. I thought 
that would be the turning point. I didn’t argue when 
she insisted on staying here... and she did seem to get 
better at first....” 

Charlie trailed off. It was hard listening to this, 
knowing how much pain I’d caused him. 

“But?” Alice prompted. 

410 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“She went back to school and work, she ate and slept 
and did her homework. She answered when someone 
asked her a direct question. But she was... empty. Her 
eyes were blank. There were lots of little things — she 
wouldn’t listen to music anymore; I found a bunch of 
CDs broken in the trash. She didn’t read; she 
wouldn’t be in the same room when the TV was on, 
not that she watched it so much before. I finally 
figured it out — she was avoiding everything that might 
remind her of... him. 

“We could hardly talk; I was so worried about saying 
something that would upset her — the littlest things 
would make her flinch — and she never volunteered 
anything. She would just answer if I asked her 
something. 

“She was alone all the time. She didn’t call her friends 
back, and after a while, they stopped calling. 

“It was night of the living dead around here. I still 
hear her screaming in her sleep....” 

I could almost see him shuddering. I shuddered, too, 
remembering. And then I sighed. I hadn’t fooled him 
at all, not for one second. 

“I’m so sorry, Charlie,” Alice said, voice glum. 

“It’s not your fault.” The way he said it made it 
perfectly clear that he was holding someone 
responsible. “You were always a good friend to her.” 

“She seems better now, though.” 

“Yeah. Ever since she started hanging out with Jacob 
Black, I’ve noticed a real improvement. She has some 
color in her cheeks when she comes home, some light 
in her eyes. She’s happier.” He paused, and his voice 

411 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was different when he spoke again. “He’s a year or so 
younger than her, and I know she used to think of 
him as a friend, but I think maybe it’s something 
more now, or headed that direction, anyway.” Charlie 
said this in a tone that was almost belligerent. It was 
a warning, not for Alice, but for her to pass along. 
“Jake’s old for his years,” he continued, still sounding 
defensive. “He’s taken care of his father physically the 
way Bella took care of her mother emotionally. It 
matured him. He’s a good-looking kid, too — takes 
after his mom’s side. He’s good for Bella, you know,” 
Charlie insisted. 

“Then it’s good she has him,” Alice agreed. 

Charlie sighed out a big gust of air, folding quickly to 
the lack of opposition. “Okay, so I guess that’s 
overstating things. I don’t know... even with Jacob, 
now and then I see something in her eyes, and I 
wonder if I’ve ever grasped how much pain she’s 
really in. It’s not normal, Alice, and it... it frightens 
me. Not normal at all. Not like someone... left her, but 
like someone died.” His voice cracked. 

It was like someone had died — like I had died. 

Because it had been more than just losing the truest 
of true loves, as if that were not enough to kill 
anyone. It was also losing a whole future, a whole 
family — the whole life that I’d chosen.... 

Charlie went on in a hopeless tone. “I don’t know if 
she’s going to get over it — I’m not sure if it’s in her 
nature to heal from something like this. She’s always 
been such a constant little thing. She doesn’t get past 
things, change her mind.” 

“She’s one of a kind,” Alice agreed in a dry voice. 



412 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“And Alice . . Charlie hesitated. “Now, you know 
how fond I am of you, and I can tell that she’s happy 
to see you, but... I’m a little worried about what your 
visit will do to her.” 

“So am I, Charlie, so am I. I wouldn’t have come if I’d 
had any idea. I’m sorry.” 

“Don’t apologize, honey. Who knows? Maybe it will be 
good for her.” 

“I hope you’re right.” 

There was a long break while forks scraped plates and 
Charlie chewed. I wondered where Alice was hiding 
the food. 

“Alice, I have to ask you something,” Charlie said 
awkwardly. 

Alice was calm. “Go ahead.” 

“He’s not coming back to visit, too, is he?” I could 
hear the suppressed anger in Charlie’s voice. 

Alice answered in a soft, reassuring tone. “He doesn’t 
even know I’m here. The last time I spoke with him, 
he was in South America.” 

I stiffened as I heard this new information, and 
listened harder. 

“That’s something, at least.” Charlie snorted. “Well, I 
hope he’s enjoying himself.” 

For the first time, Alice’s voice had a bit of steel in it. 

“I wouldn’t make assumptions, Charlie.” I knew how 
her eyes would flash when she used that tone. 



413 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




A chair scooted from the table, scraping loudly across 
the floor. I pictured Charlie getting up; there was no 
way Alice would make that kind of noise. The faucet 
ran, splashing against a dish. 

It didn’t sound like they were going to say anything 
more about Edward, so I decided it was time to wake 
up. 

I turned over, bouncing against the springs to make 
them squeak. Then I yawned loudly. 

All was quiet in the kitchen. 

I stretched and groaned. 

“Alice?” I asked innocently; the soreness rasping in 
my throat added nicely to the charade. 

“I’m in the kitchen, Bella,” Alice called, no hint in her 
voice that she suspected my eavesdropping. But she 
was good at hiding things like that. 

Charlie had to leave then — he was helping Sue 
Clearwater with the funeral arrangements. It would 
have been a very long day without Alice. She never 
spoke about leaving, and I didn’t ask her. I knew it 
was inevitable, but I put it out of my mind. 

Instead, we talked about her family — all but one. 

Carlisle was working nights in Ithaca and teaching 
part time at Cornell. Esme was restoring a 
seventeenth century house, a historical monument, in 
the forest north of the city. Emmett and Rosalie had 
gone to Europe for a few months on another 
honeymoon, but they were back now. Jasper was at 
Cornell, too, studying philosophy this time. And Alice 
had been doing some personal research, concerning 
414 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the information I’d accidentally uncovered for her last 
spring. She’d successfully tracked down the asylum 
where she’d spent the last years of her human life. 

The life she had no memory of. 

“My name was Mary Alice Brandon,” she told me 
quietly. “I had a little sister named Cynthia. Her 
daughter — my niece — is still alive in Biloxi.” 

“Did you find out why they put you in... that place?” 
What would drive parents to that extreme? Even if 
their daughter saw visions of the future.... 

She just shook her head, her topaz eyes thoughtful. “I 
couldn’t find much about them. I went through all the 
old newspapers on microfiche. My family wasn’t 
mentioned often; they weren’t part of the social circle 
that made the papers. My parents’ engagement was 
there, and Cynthia’s.” The name fell uncertainly from 
her tongue. “My birth was announced... and my death. 
I found my grave. I also filched my admissions sheet 
from the old asylum archives. The date on the 
admission and the date on my tombstone are the 
same.” 

I didn’t know what to say, and, after a short pause, 
Alice moved on to lighter topics. 

The Cullens were reassembled now, with the one 
exception, spending Cornell’s spring break in Denali 
with Tanya and her family. I listened too eagerly to 
even the most trivial news. She never mentioned the 
one I was most interested in, and for that I was 
grateful. It was enough to listen to the stories of the 
family I’d once dreamed of belonging to. 

Charlie didn’t get back until after dark, and he looked 
more worn than he had the night before. He would be 
headed back to the reservation first thing in the 

415 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




morning for Harry’s funeral, so he turned in early. I 
stayed on the couch with Alice again. 

Charlie was almost a stranger when he came down 
the stairs before the sun was up, wearing an old suit 
I’d never seen him in before. The jacket hung open; I 
guessed it was too tight to fasten the buttons. His tie 
was a bit wide for the current style. He tiptoed to the 
door, trying not to wake us up. I let him go, 
pretending to sleep, as Alice did on the recliner. 

As soon as he was out the door, Alice sat up. Under 
the quilt, she was fully dressed. 

“So, what are we doing today?” she asked. 

“I don’t know — do you see anything interesting 
happening?” 

She smiled and shook her head. “But it’s still early.” 

All the time I’d been spending in La Push meant a pile 
of things I’d been neglecting at home, and I decided to 
catch up on my chores. I wanted to do something, 
anything that might make life easier for Charlie — 
maybe it would make him feel just a little better to 
come home to a clean, organized house. I started with 
the bathroom — it showed the most signs of neglect. 

While I worked, Alice leaned against the doorjamb 
and asked nonchalant questions about my, well, our 
high school friends and what they been up to since 
she’d left. Her face stayed casual and emotionless, 
but I sensed her disapproval when she realized how 
little I could tell her. Or maybe I just had a guilty 
conscience after eavesdropping on her conversation 
with Charlie yesterday morning. 



416 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I was literally up to my elbows in Comet, scrubbing 
the floor of the bathtub, when the doorbell rang. 

I looked to Alice at once, and her expression was 
perplexed, almost worried, which was strange; Alice 
was never taken by surprise. 

“Hold on!” I shouted in the general direction of the 
front door, getting up and hurrying to the sink to 
rinse my arms off. 

“Bella,” Alice said with a trace of frustration in her 
voice, “I have a fairly good guess who that might be, 
and I think I’d better step out.” 

“Guess?” I echoed. Since when did Alice have to guess 
anything? 

“If this is a repeat of my egregious lapse in foresight 
yesterday, then it’s most likely Jacob Black or one of 
his... friends.” 

I stared at her, putting it together. “You can’t see 
werewolves?” 

She grimaced. “So it would seem.” She was obviously 
annoyed by this fact — very annoyed. 

The doorbell rang again — buzzing twice quickly and 
impatiently. 

“You don’t have go anywhere, Alice. You were here 
first.” 

She laughed her silvery little laugh — it had a dark 
edge. “Trust me — it wouldn’t be a good idea to have 
me and Jacob Black in a room together.” 



417 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




She kissed my cheek swiftly before she vanished 
through Charlie’s door — and out his back window, no 
doubt. 

The doorbell rang again. 



418 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




THE FUNERAL 




I sprinted down the stairs and threw the door open. 

It was Jacob, of course. Even blind, Alice wasn’t slow. 

He was standing about six feet back from the door, 
his nose wrinkled in distaste, but his face otherwise 
smooth — masklike. He didn’t fool me; I could see the 
faint trembling of his hands. 

Hostility rolled off of him in waves. It brought back 
that awful afternoon when he’d chosen Sam over me, 
and I felt my chin jerk up defensively in response. 

Jacob’s Rabbit idled by the curb with Jared behind 
the wheel and Embry in the passenger seat. I 
understood what this meant: they were afraid to let 
him come here alone. It made me sad, and a little 
annoyed. The Cullens weren’t like that. 

“Hey,” I finally said when he didn’t speak. 

Jake pursed his lips, still hanging back from the door. 
His eyes flickered across the front of the house. 

I ground my teeth. “She’s not here. Do you need 
something?” 

He hesitated. “You’re alone?” 

“Yes.” I sighed. 

“Can I talk to you a minute?” 

“Of course you can, Jacob. Come on in.” 

419 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



Jacob glanced over his shoulder at his friends in the 
car. I saw Embry shake his head just a tiny bit. For 
some reason, this bugged me to no end. 

My teeth clenched together again. “Chicken,” I 
mumbled under my breath. 

Jake’s eyes flashed back to me, his thick, black brows 
pushing into a furious angle over his deep-set eyes. 
His jaw set, and he marched — there was no other way 
to describe the way he moved — up the sidewalk and 
shrugged past me into the house. 

I locked gazes with first Jared and then Embry — I 
didn’t like the hard way they eyed me; did they really 
think I would let anything hurt Jacob? — before I shut 
the door on them. 

Jacob was in the hall behind me, staring at the mess 
of blankets in the living room. 

“Slumber party?” he asked, his tone sarcastic. 

“Yeah,” I answered with the same level of acid. I didn’t 
like Jacob when he acted this way. “What’s it to you?” 

He wrinkled his nose again like he smelled something 
unpleasant. “Where’s your ‘friend’?” I could hear the 
quotation marks in his tone. 

“She had some errands to run. Look, Jacob, what do 
you want?” 

Something about the room seemed to make him 
edgier — his long arms were quivering. He didn’t 
answer my question. Instead he moved on to the 
kitchen, his restless eyes darting everywhere. 



420 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I followed him. He paced back and forth along the 
short counter. 

“Hey,” I said, putting myself in his way. He stopped 
pacing and stared down at me. “What’s your 
problem?” 

“I don’t like having to be here.” 

That stung. I winced, and his eyes tightened. 

“Then I’m sorry you had to come,” I muttered. “Why 
don’t you tell me what you need so you can leave?” 

“I just have to ask you a couple of questions. It 
shouldn’t take long. We have to get back for the 
funeral.” 

“Okay. Get it over with then.” I was probably 
overdoing it with the antagonism, but I didn’t want 
him to see how much this hurt. I knew I wasn’t being 
fair. After all, I’d picked the bloodsucker over him last 
night. I’d hurt him first. 

He took a deep breath, and his trembling fingers were 
suddenly still. His face smoothed into a serene mask. 

“One of the Cullens is staying here with you,” he 
stated. 

“Yes. Alice Cullen.” 

He nodded thoughtfully. “How long is she here for?” 

“As long as she wants to be.” The belligerence was 
still there in my tone. “It’s an open invitation.” 

“Do you think you could... please... explain to her 
about the other one — Victoria?” 

421 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I paled. “I told her about that.” 



He nodded. “You should know that we can only watch 
our own lands with a Cullen here. You’ll only be safe 
in La Push. I can’t protect you here anymore.” 

“Okay,” I said in a small voice. 

He looked away then, out the back windows. He 
didn’t continue. 

“Is that all?” 

He kept his eyes on the glass as he answered. “Just 
one more thing.” 

I waited, but he didn’t continue. “Yes?” I finally 
prompted. 

“Are the rest of them coming back now?” he asked in 
a cool, quiet voice. It reminded me of Sam’s always 
calm manner. Jacob was becoming more like Sam.... I 
wondered why that bothered me so much. 

Now I didn’t speak. He looked back at my face with 
probing eyes. 

“Well?” he asked. He struggled to conceal the tension 
behind his serene expression. 

“No.” I said finally. Grudgingly. “They aren’t coming 
back.” 

His expression didn’t change. “Okay. That’s all.” 

I glared at him, annoyance rekindled. “Well, run along 
now. Go tell Sam that the scary monsters aren’t 
coming to get you.” 



422 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay,” he repeated, still calm. 



That seemed to be it. Jacob walked swiftly from the 
kitchen. I waited to hear the front door open, but I 
heard nothing. I could hear the clock over the stove 
ticking, and I marveled again at how quiet he’d 
become. 

What a disaster. How could I have alienated him so 
completely in such a short amount of time? 

Would he forgive me when Alice was gone? What if he 
didn’t? 

I slumped against the counter and buried my face in 
my hands. How had I made such a mess of 
everything? But what could I have done differently? 
Even in hindsight, I couldn’t think of any better way, 
any perfect course of action. 

“Bella...?” Jacob asked in a troubled voice. 

I pulled my face out of my hands to see Jacob 
hesitating in the kitchen doorway; he hadn’t left when 
I’d thought. It was only when I saw the clear drops 
sparkling in my hands that I realized I was crying. 

Jacob’s calm expression was gone; his face was 
anxious and unsure. He walked quickly back to stand 
in front of me, ducking his head so that his eyes were 
closer to being on the same level with mine. 

“Did it again, didn’t I?” 

“Did what?” I asked, my voice cracking. 

“Broke my promise. Sorry.” 

“’S’okay,” I mumbled. “I started it this time.” 

423 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




His face twisted. “I knew how you felt about them. It 
shouldn’t have taken me by surprise like that.” 

I could see the revulsion in his eyes. I wanted to 
explain to him what Alice was really like, to defend 
her against the judgments he’d made, but something 
warned me that now was not the time. 

So I just said, “Sorry,” again. 

“Let’s not worry about it, okay? She’s just visiting, 
right? Shell leave, and things will go back to normal.” 

“Can’t I be friends with you both at the same time?” I 
asked, my voice not hiding an ounce of the hurt I felt. 

He shook his head slowly. “No, I don’t think you can.” 

I sniffed and stared at his big feet. “But you’ll wait, 
right? Youll still be my friend, even though I love 
Alice, too?” 

I didn’t look up, afraid to see what he’d think of that 
last part. It took him a minute to answer, so I was 
probably right not to look. 

“Yeah, I’ll always be your friend,” he said gruffly. “No 
matter what you love.” 

“Promise?” 

“Promise.” 

I felt his arms wind around me, and I leaned against 
his chest, still sniffling. “This sucks.” 

“Yeah.” Then he sniffed my hair and said, “Ew.” 



424 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What!” I demanded. I looked up to see that his nose 
was wrinkled again. “Why does everyone keep doing 
that to me? I don’t smell!” 

He smiled a little. “Yes, you do — you smell like them. 
Blech. Too sweet — sickly sweet. And... icy. It burns my 
nose.” 

“Really?” That was strange. Alice smelled unbelievably 
wonderful. To a human, anyway. “But why would 
Alice think I smelled, too, then?” 

That wiped his smile away. “Huh. Maybe I don’t smell 
so good to her, either. Huh.” 

“Well, you both smell fine to me.” I rested my head 
against him again. I was going to miss him terribly 
when he walked out my door. It was a nasty catch- 
22 — on the one hand, I wanted Alice to stay forever. I 
was going to die — metaphorically — when she left me. 
But how was I supposed to go without seeing Jake for 
any length of time? What a mess, I thought again. 

“I’ll miss you,” Jacob whispered, echoing my 
thoughts. “Every minute. I hope she leaves soon.” 

“It really doesn’t have to be that way, Jake.” 

He sighed. “Yes, it really does, Bella. You... love her. 

So I’d better not get anywhere near her. I’m not sure 
that I’m even-tempered enough to handle that. Sam 
would be mad if I broke the treaty, and” — his voice 
turned sarcastic — “you probably wouldn’t like it too 
much if I killed your friend.” 

I recoiled from him when he said that, but he only 
tightened his arms, refusing to let me escape. “There’s 
no point in avoiding the truth. That’s the way things 
are, Bells.” 

425 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I do not like the way things are.” 



Jacob freed one arm so that he could cup his big 
brown hand under my chin and make me look at him. 
“Yeah. It was easier when we were both human, 
wasn’t it?” 

I sighed. 

We stared at each other for a long moment. His hand 
smoldered against my skin. In my face, I knew there 
was nothing but wistful sadness — I didn’t want to 
have to say goodbye now, no matter for how short a 
time. At first his face reflected mine, but then, as 
neither of us looked away, his expression changed. 

He released me, lifting his other hand to brush his 
fingertips along my cheek, trailing them down to my 
jaw. I could feel his fingers tremble — not with anger 
this time. He pressed his palm against my cheek, so 
that my face was trapped between his burning hands. 

“Bella,” he whispered. 

I was frozen. 

No! I hadn’t made this decision yet. I didn’t know if I 
could do this, and now I was out of time to think. But 
I would have been a fool if I thought rejecting him 
now would have no consequences. 

I stared back at him. He was not my Jacob, but he 
could be. His face was familiar and beloved. In so 
many real ways, I did love him. He was my comfort, 
my safe harbor. Right now, I could choose to have 
him belong to me. 

Alice was back for the moment, but that changed 
nothing. True love was forever lost. The prince was 

426 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




never coming back to kiss me awake from my 
enchanted sleep. I was not a princess, after all. So 
what was the fairy-tale protocol for other kisses? The 
mundane kind that didn’t break any spells? 

Maybe it would be easy — like holding his hand or 
having his arms around me. Maybe it would feel nice. 
Maybe it wouldn’t feel like a betrayal. Besides, who 
was I betraying, anyway? Just myself. 

Keeping his eyes on mine, Jacob began to bend his 
face toward me. And I was still absolutely undecided. 

The shrill ring of the phone made us both jump, but it 
did not break his focus. He took his hand from under 
my chin and reached over me to grab the receiver, but 
still held my face securely with the hand against my 
cheek. His dark eyes did not free mine. I was too 
muddled to react, even to take advantage of the 
distraction. 

“Swan residence,” Jacob said, his husky voice low 
and intense. 

Someone answered, and Jacob altered in an instant. 
He straightened up, and his hand dropped from my 
face. His eyes went flat, his face blank, and I would 
have bet the measly remainder of my college fund that 
it was Alice. 

I recovered myself and held out my hand for the 
phone. Jacob ignored me. 

“He’s not here,” Jacob said, and the words were 
menacing. 

There was some very short reply, a request for more 
information it seemed, because he added unwillingly, 
“He’s at the funeral.” 

427 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Then Jacob hung up the phone. “Filthy bloodsucker,” 
he muttered under his breath. The face he turned 
back to me was the bitter mask again. 

“Who did you just hang up on?” I gasped, infuriated. 
“In my house, and on my phone?” 

“Easy! He hung up on me!” 

“He? Who was it?!” 

He sneered the title. “Dr. Carlisle Cullen.” 

“Why didn’t you let me talk to him?!” 

“He didn’t ask for you,” Jacob said coldly. His face 
was smooth, expressionless, but his hands shook. 

“He asked where Charlie was and I told him. I don’t 
think I broke any rules of etiquette.” 

“You listen to me, Jacob Black — ” 

But he obviously wasn’t listening. He looked quickly 
over his shoulder, as if someone had called his name 
from the other room. His eyes went wide and his body 
stiff, then he started trembling. I listened too, 
automatically, but heard nothing. 

“Bye, Bells,” he spit out, and wheeled toward the front 
door. 

I ran after him. “What is it?” 

And then I ran into him, as he rocked back on his 
heels, cussing under his breath. He spun around 
again, knocking me sideways. I hobbled and fell to the 
floor, my legs tangled with his. 



428 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Shoot, ow!” I protested as he hurriedly jerked his legs 
free one at a time. 



I struggled to pull myself up as he darted for the back 
door; he suddenly froze again. 

Alice stood motionless at the foot of the stairs. 

“Bella,” she choked. 

I scrambled to my feet and lurched to her side. Her 
eyes were dazed and far away, her face drawn and 
whiter than bone. Her slim body trembled to an inner 
turmoil. 

“Alice, what’s wrong?” I cried. I put my hands on her 
face, trying to calm her. 

Her eyes focused on mine abruptly, wide with pain. 

“Edward,” was all she whispered. 

My body reacted faster than my mind was able to 
catch up with the implications of her reply. I didn’t at 
first understand why the room was spinning or where 
the hollow roar in my ears was coming from. My mind 
labored, unable to make sense of Alice’s bleak face 
and how it could possibly relate to Edward, while my 
body was already swaying, seeking the relief of 
unconsciousness before the reality could hit me. 

The stairway tilted at the oddest angle. 

Jacob’s furious voice was suddenly in my ear, hissing 
out a stream of profanities. I felt a vague disapproval. 
His new friends were clearly a bad influence. 

I was on the couch without understanding how I got 
there, and Jacob was still swearing. It felt like there 

429 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




was an earthquake — the couch was shaking under 
me. 

“What did you do to her?” he demanded. 

Alice ignored him. “Bella? Bella, snap out of it. We 
have to hurry.” 

“Stay back,” Jacob warned. 

“Calm down, Jacob Black,” Alice ordered. “You don’t 
want to do that so close to her.” 

“I don’t think I’ll have any problem keeping my focus,” 
he retorted, but his voice sounded a little cooler. 

“Alice?” My voice was weak. “What happened?” I 
asked, even though I didn’t want to hear. 

“I don’t know,” she suddenly wailed. “What is he 
thinking?!” 

I labored to pull myself up despite the dizziness. I 
realized it was Jacob’s arm I was gripping for balance. 
He was the one shaking, not the couch. 

Alice was pulling a small silver phone from her bag 
when my eyes relocated her. Her fingers dialed the 
numbers so fast they were a blur. 

“Rose, I need to talk to Carlisle now.” Her voice 
whipped through the words. “Fine, as soon as he’s 
back. No, I’ll be on a plane. Look, have you heard 
anything from Edward?” 

Alice paused now, listening with an expression that 
grew more appalled every second. Her mouth opened 
into a little O of horror, and the phone shook in her 
hand. 

430 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why?” she gasped. “Why would you do that, 

Rosalie?” 

Whatever the answer was, it made her jaw tighten in 
anger. Her eyes flashed and narrowed. 

“Well, you’re wrong on both counts, though, Rosalie, 
so that would be a problem, don’t you think?” she 
asked acidly. “Yes, that’s right. She’s absolutely fine — 
I was wrong.... It’s a long story.... But you’re wrong 
about that part, too, that’s why I’m calling.... Yes, 
that’s exactly what I saw.” 

Alice’s voice was very hard and her lips were pulled 
back from her teeth. “It’s a bit late for that, Rose. 

Save your remorse for someone who believes it.” Alice 
snapped the phone shut with a sharp twist of her 
fingers. 

Her eyes were tortured as she turned to face me. 

“Alice,” I blurted out quickly. I couldn’t let her speak 
yet. I needed a few more seconds before she spoke 
and her words destroyed what was left of my life. 
“Alice, Carlisle is back, though. He called just 
before....” 

She stared at me blankly. “How long ago?” she asked 
in a hollow voice. 

“Half a minute before you showed up.” 

“What did he say?” She really focused now, waiting 
for my answer. 

“I didn’t talk to him.” My eyes flickered to Jacob. 



431 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice turned her penetrating gaze on him. He flinched, 
but held his place next to me. He sat awkwardly, 
almost as if he were trying to shield me with his body. 

“He asked for Charlie, and I told him Charlie wasn’t 
here,” Jacob muttered resentfully. 

“Is that everything?” Alice demanded, her voice like 
ice. 

“Then he hung up on me,” Jacob spit back. A tremor 
rolled down his spine, shaking me with it. 

“You told him Charlie was at the funeral,” I reminded 
him. 

Alice jerked her head back toward me. “What were his 
exact words?” 

“He said, ‘He’s not here,’ and when Carlisle asked 
where Charlie was, Jacob said, ‘At the funeral.’” 

Alice moaned and sank to her knees. 

“Tell me Alice,” I whispered. 

“That wasn’t Carlisle on the phone,” she said 
hopelessly. 

“Are you calling me a liar?” Jacob snarled from beside 
me. 

Alice ignored him, focusing on my bewildered face. 

“It was Edward.” The words were just a choked 
whisper. “He thinks you’re dead.” 



432 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My mind started to work again. These words weren’t 
the ones I’d been afraid of, and the relief cleared my 
head. 

“Rosalie told him I killed myself, didn’t she?” I said, 
sighing as I relaxed. 

“Yes,” Alice admitted, her eyes flashing hard again. 

“In her defense, she did believe it. They rely on my 
sight far too much for something that works so 
imperfectly. But for her to track him down to tell him 
this! Didn’t she realize... or care...?” Her voice faded 
away in horror. 

“And when Edward called here, he thought Jacob 
meant my funeral,” I realized. It stung to know how 
close I’d been, just inches away from his voice. My 
nails dug into Jacob’s arm, but he didn’t flinch. 

Alice looked at me strangely. “You’re not upset,” she 
whispered. 

“Well, it’s really rotten timing, but it will all get 
straightened out. The next time he calls, someone will 
tell him... what... really ...” I trailed off. Her gaze 
strangled the words in my throat. 

Why was she so panicked? Why was her face twisting 
now with pity and horror? What was it she had said 
to Rosalie on the phone just now? Something about 
what she’d seen... and Rosalie’s remorse; Rosalie 
would never feel remorse for anything that happened 
to me. But if she’d hurt her family, hurt her brother... 

“Bella,” Alice whispered. “Edward won’t call again. He 
believed her.” 

“I. Don’t. Understand.” My mouth framed each word 
in silence. I couldn’t push the air out to actually say 

433 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the words that would make her explain what that 
meant. 

“He’s going to Italy.” 

It took the length of one heartbeat for me to 
comprehend. 

When Edward’s voice came back to me now, it was 
not the perfect imitation of my delusions. It was just 
the weak, flat tone of my memories. But the words 
alone were enough to shred through my chest and 
leave it gaping open. Words from a time when I would 
have bet everything that I owned or could borrow on 
that fact that he loved me. 

Well, I wasn’t going to live without you, he’d said as 
we watched Romeo and Juliet die, here in this very 
room. But I wasn’t sure how to do it.... I knew Emmett 
and Jasper would never help.... so I was thinking 
maybe I would go to Italy and do something to 
provoke the Volturi....You don’t irritate them. Not 
unless you want to die. 

Not unless you want to die. 

“NO!” The half-shrieked denial was so loud after the 
whispered words, it made us all jump. I felt the blood 
rushing to my face as I realized what she’d seen. “No! 
No, no, no! He can’t! He can’t do that!” 

“He made up his mind as soon as your friend 
confirmed that it was too late to save you.” 

“But he... he left! He didn’t want me anymore! What 
difference does it make now? He knew I would die 
sometime!” 



434 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t think he ever planned to outlive you by long,” 
Alice said quietly. 

“How dare he!” I screamed. I was on my feet now, and 
Jacob rose uncertainly to put himself between Alice 
and me again. 

“Oh, get out of the way, Jacob!” I elbowed my way 
around his trembling body with desperate impatience. 
“What do we do?” I begged Alice. There had to be 
something. “Can’t we call him? Can Carlisle?” 

She was shaking her head. “That was the first thing I 
tried. He left his phone in a trash can in Rio — 
someone answered it...,” she whispered. 

“You said before we had to hurry. Hurry how? Let’s do 
it, whatever it is!” 

“Bella, I — I don’t think I can ask you to . . .” She 
trailed off in indecision. 

“Ask me!” I commanded. 

She put her hands on my shoulders, holding me in 
place, her fingers flexing sporadically to emphasize 
her words. “We may already be too late. I saw him 
going to the Volturi...and asking to die.” We both 
cringed, and my eyes were suddenly blind. I blinked 
feverishly at the tears. “It all depends on what they 
choose. I can’t see that till they make a decision. 

“But if they say no, and they might — Aro is fond of 
Carlisle, and wouldn’t want to offend him — Edward 
has a backup plan. They’re very protective of their 
city. If Edward does something to upset the peace, he 
thinks they’ll act to stop him. And he’s right. They 
will.” 



435 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at her with my jaw clenched in frustration. I’d 
heard nothing yet that would explain why we were 
still standing here. 

“So if they agree to grant his favor, we’re too late. If 
they say no, and he comes up with a plan to offend 
them quickly enough, we’re too late. If he gives into 
his more theatrical tendencies... we might have time.” 

“Let’s go!” 

“Listen, Bella! Whether we are in time or not, we will 
be in the heart of the Volturi city. I will be considered 
his accomplice if he is successful. You will be a 
human who not only knows too much, but also smells 
too good. There’s a very good chance that they will 
eliminate us all — though in your case it won’t be 
punishment so much as dinnertime.” 

“This is what’s keeping us here?” I asked in disbelief. 
“I’ll go alone if you’re afraid.” I mentally tabulated 
what money was left in my account, and wondered if 
Alice would lend me the rest. 

“I’m only afraid of getting you killed.” 

I snorted in disgust. “I almost get myself killed on a 
daily basis! Tell me what I need to do!” 

“You write a note to Charlie. I’ll call the airlines.” 

“Charlie,” I gasped. 

Not that my presence was protecting him, but could I 
leave him here alone to face... 

“I’m not going to let anything happen to Charlie.” 
Jacob’s low voice was gruff and angry. “Screw the 
treaty.” 

436 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I glanced up at him, and he scowled at my panicked 
expression. 

“Hurry, Bella,” Alice interrupted urgently. 

I ran to the kitchen, yanking the drawers open and 
throwing the contents all over the floor as I searched 
for a pen. A smooth, brown hand held one out to me. 

“Thanks,” I mumbled, pulling the cap off with my 
teeth. He silently handed me the pad of paper we 
wrote phone messages on. I tore off the top sheet and 
threw it over my shoulder. 



Dad, I wrote. 

witfi y Mt CJlK (fKt-IXtJi 

/Wt ') IkusA. ) iff (L lnJ( tiv Wt. 

AW ueJv. 

$<1U 






“Don’t go,” Jacob whispered. The anger was all gone 
now that Alice was out of sight. 

I wasn’t about to waste time arguing with him. 

“Please, please, please take care of Charlie,” I said as I 
dashed back out to the front room. Alice was waiting 
in the doorway with a bag over her shoulder. 

“Get your wallet — you’ll need ID. Please tell me you 
have a passport. I don’t have time to forge one.” 

I nodded and then raced up the stairs, my knees 
weak with gratitude that my mother had wanted to 
marry Phil on a beach in Mexico. Of course, like all 



437 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



her plans, it had fallen through. But not before I’d 
made all the practical arrangements I could for her. 

I tore through my room. I stuffed my old wallet, a 
clean T-shirt, and sweatpants into my backpack, and 
then threw my toothbrush on top. I hurled myself 
back down the stairs. The sense of deja vu was nearly 
stifling by this point. At least, unlike the last time — 
when I’d run away from Forks to escape thirsty 
vampires rather than to find them — I wouldn’t have to 
say goodbye to Charlie in person. 

Jacob and Alice were locked in some kind of 
confrontation in front of the open door, standing so 
far apart you wouldn’t assume at first that they were 
having a conversation. Neither one seemed to notice 
my noisy reappearance. 

“You might control yourself on occasion, but these 
leeches you’re taking her to — ” Jacob was furiously 
accusing her. 

“Yes. You’re right, dog.” Alice was snarling, too. “The 
Volturi are the very essence of our kind — they’re the 
reason your hair stands on end when you smell me. 
They are the substance of your nightmares, the dread 
behind your instincts. I’m not unaware of that.” 

“And you take her to them like a bottle of wine for a 
party!” he shouted. 

“You think she’d be better off if I left her here alone, 
with Victoria stalking her?” 

“We can handle the redhead.” 

“Then why is she still hunting?” 



438 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob growled, and a shudder rippled through his 
torso. 



“Stop that!” I shouted at them both, wild with 
impatience. “Argue when we get back, let’s go!” 

Alice turned for the car, disappearing in her haste. I 
hurried after her, pausing automatically to turn and 
lock the door. 

Jacob caught my arm with a shivering hand. “Please, 
Bella. I’m begging.” 

His dark eyes were glistening with tears. A lump filled 
my throat. 

“Jake, I have to — ” 

“You don’t, though. You really don’t. You could stay 
here with me. You could stay alive. For Charlie. For 
me.” 

The engine of Carlisle’s Mercedes purred; the rhythm 
of the thrumming spiked when Alice revved it 
impatiently. 

I shook my head, tears spattering from my eyes with 
the sharp motion. I pulled my arm free, and he didn’t 
fight me. 

“Don’t die, Bella,” he choked out. “Don’t go. Don’t.” 
What if I never saw him again? 

The thought pushed me past the silent tears; a sob 
broke out from my chest. I threw my arms around his 
waist and hugged for one too-short moment, burying 
my tear-wet face against his chest. He put his big 
hand on the back of my hair, as if to hold me there. 

439 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bye, Jake.” I pulled his hand from my hair, and 
kissed his palm. I couldn’t bear to look at his face. 
“Sorry,” I whispered. 

Then I spun and raced for the car. The door on the 
passenger side was open and waiting. I threw my 
backpack over the headrest and slid in, slamming the 
door behind me. 

“Take care of Charlie!” I turned to shout out the 
window, but Jacob was nowhere in sight. As Alice 
stomped on the gas and — with the tires screeching 
like human screams — spun us around to face the 
road, I caught sight of a shred of white near the edge 
of the trees. A piece of a shoe. 



440 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




RACE 



We made our flight with seconds to spare, and then 
the true torture began. The plane sat idle on the 
tarmac while the flight attendants strolled — so 
casually — up and down the aisle, patting the bags in 
the overhead compartments to make sure everything 
fit. The pilots leaned out of the cockpit, chatting with 
them as they passed. Alice’s hand was hard on my 
shoulder, holding me in my seat while I bounced 
anxiously up and down. 

“It’s faster than running,” she reminded me in a low 
voice. 

I just nodded in time with my bouncing. 

At last the plane rolled lazily from the gate, building 
speed with a gradual steadiness that tortured me 
further. I expected some kind of relief when we 
achieved liftoff, but my frenzied impatience didn’t 
lessen. 

Alice lifted the phone on the back of the seat in front 
of her before we’d stopped climbing, turning her back 
on the stewardess who eyed her with disapproval. 
Something about my expression stopped the 
stewardess from coming over to protest. 

I tried to tune out what Alice was murmuring to 
Jasper; I didn’t want to hear the words again, but 
some slipped through. 

“I can’t be sure, I keep seeing him do different things, 
he keeps changing his mind.... A killing spree through 
the city, attacking the guard, lifting a car over his 

441 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



head in the main square... mostly things that would 
expose them — he knows that’s the fastest way to force 
a reaction.... 

“No, you can’t.” Alice’s voice dropped till it was nearly 
inaudible, though I was sitting inches from her. 
Contrarily, I listened harder. “Tell Emmett no.... Well, 
go after Emmett and Rosalie and bring them 
back.... Think about it, Jasper. If he sees any of us, 
what do you think he will do?” 

She nodded. “Exactly. I think Bella is the only 
chance — if there is a chance.... I’ll do everything that 
can be done, but prepare Carlisle; the odds aren’t 
good.” 

She laughed then, and there was a catch in her voice. 
“I’ve thought of that.... Yes, I promise.” Her voice 
became pleading. “Don’t follow me. I promise, Jasper. 
One way or another, I’ll get out.... And I love you.” 

She hung up, and leaned back in her seat with her 
eyes closed. “I hate lying to him.” 

“Tell me everything, Alice,” I begged. “I don’t 
understand. Why did you tell Jasper to stop Emmett, 
why can’t they come help us?” 

“Two reasons,” she whispered, her eyes still closed. 
“The first I told him. We could try to stop Edward 
ourselves — if Emmett could get his hands on him, we 
might be able to stop him long enough to convince 
him you’re alive. But we can’t sneak up on Edward. 
And if he sees us coming for him, he’ll just act that 
much faster. He’ll throw a Buick through a wall or 
something, and the Volturi will take him down. 

“That’s the second reason of course, the reason I 
couldn’t say to Jasper. Because if they’re there and 

442 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




the Volturi kill Edward, they’ll fight them. Bella.” She 
opened her eyes and stared at me, beseeching. “If 
there were any chance we could win... if there were a 
way that the four of us could save my brother by 
fighting for him, maybe it would be different. But we 
can’t, and, Bella, I can’t lose Jasper like that.” 

I realized why her eyes begged for my understanding. 
She was protecting Jasper, at our expense, and 
maybe at Edward’s, too. I understood, and I did not 
think badly of her. I nodded. 

“Couldn’t Edward hear you, though?” I asked. 
“Wouldn’t he know, as soon as he heard your 
thoughts, that I was alive, that there was no point to 
this?” 

Not that there was any justification, either way. I still 
couldn’t believe that he was capable of reacting like 
this. It made no sense! I remembered with painful 
clarity his words that day on the sofa, while we 
watched Romeo and Juliet kill themselves, one after 
the other. I wasn’t going to live without you, he’d said, 
as if it should be such an obvious conclusion. But the 
words he had spoken in the forest as he’d left me had 
canceled all that out — forcefully. 

“If he were listening,” she explained. “But believe it or 
not, it’s possible to lie with your thoughts. If you had 
died, I would still try to stop him. And I would be 
thinking ‘she’s alive, she’s alive’ as hard as I could. He 
knows that.” 

I ground my teeth in mute frustration. 

“If there were any way to do this without you, Bella, I 
wouldn’t be endangering you like this. It’s very wrong 
of me.” 



443 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t be stupid. I’m the last thing you should be 
worrying about.” I shook my head impatiently. “Tell 
me what you meant, about hating to lie to Jasper.” 

She smiled a grim smile. “I promised him I would get 
out before they killed me, too. It’s not something I can 
guarantee — not by a long shot.” She raised her 
eyebrows, as if willing me to take the danger more 
seriously. 

“Who are these Volturi?” I demanded in a whisper. 
“What makes them so much more dangerous than 
Emmett, Jasper, Rosalie, and you?” It was hard to 
imagine something scarier than that. 

She took a deep breath, and then abruptly leveled a 
dark glance over my shoulder. I turned in time to see 
the man in the aisle seat looking away as if he wasn’t 
listening to us. He appeared to be a businessman, in 
a dark suit with a power tie and a laptop on his 
knees. While I stared at him with irritation, he opened 
the computer and very conspicuously put 
headphones on. 

I leaned closer to Alice. Her lips were at my ears as 
she breathed the story. 

“I was surprised that you recognized the name,” she 
said. “That you understood so immediately what it 
meant — when I said he was going to Italy. I thought I 
would have to explain. How much did Edward tell 
you?” 

“He just said they were an old, powerful family — like 
royalty. That you didn’t antagonize them unless you 
wanted to... die,” I whispered. The last word was hard 
to choke out. 



444 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“You have to understand,” she said, her voice slower, 
more measured now. “We Cullens are unique in more 
ways than you know. It’s... abnormal for so many of 
us to live together in peace. It’s the same for Tanya’s 
family in the north, and Carlisle speculates that 
abstaining makes it easier for us to be civilized, to 
form bonds based on love rather than survival or 
convenience. Even James’s little coven of three was 
unusually large — and you saw how easily Laurent left 
them. Our kind travel alone, or in pairs, as a general 
rule. Carlisle’s family is the biggest in existence, as 
far as I know, with the one exception. The Volturi. 

“There were three of them originally, Aro, Caius, and 
Marcus.” 

“I’ve seen them,” I mumbled. “In the picture in 
Carlisle’s study.” 

Alice nodded. “Two females joined them over time, 
and the five of them make up the family. I’m not sure, 
but I suspect that their age is what gives them the 
ability to live peacefully together. They are well over 
three thousand years old. Or maybe it’s their gifts 
that give them extra tolerance. Like Edward and I, Aro 
and Marcus are . . .talented.” 

She continued before I could ask. “Or maybe it’s just 
their love of power that binds them together. Royalty 
is an apt description.” 

“But if there are only five — ” 

“Five that make up the family,” she corrected. “That 
doesn’t include their guard.” 

I took a deep breath. “That sounds... serious.” 



445 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh, it is,” she assured me. “There were nine 
members of the guard that were permanent, the last 
time we heard. Others are more... transitory. It 
changes. And many of them are gifted as well — with 
formidable gifts, gifts that make what I can do look 
like a parlor trick. The Volturi chose them for their 
abilities, physical or otherwise.” 

I opened my mouth, and then closed it. I didn’t think 
I wanted to know how bad the odds were. 

She nodded again, as if she understood exactly what I 
was thinking. “They don’t get into too many 
confrontations. No one is stupid enough to mess with 
them. They stay in their city, leaving only as duty 
calls.” 

“Duty?” I wondered. 

“Didn’t Edward tell you what they do?” 

“No,” I said, feeling the blank expression on my face. 

Alice looked over my head again, toward the 
businessman, and put her wintry lips back to my ear. 

“There’s a reason he called them royalty... the ruling 
class. Over the millennia, they have assumed the 
position of enforcing our rules — which actually 
translates to punishing transgressors. They fulfill that 
duty decisively.” 

My eyes popped wide with shock. “There are rules?” I 
asked in a voice that was too loud. 

“Shh!” 

“Shouldn’t somebody have mentioned this to me 
earlier?” I whispered angrily. “I mean, I wanted to be 

446 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




a... to be one of you! Shouldn’t somebody have 
explained the rules to me?” 

Alice chuckled once at my reaction. “It’s not that 
complicated, Bella. There’s only one core restriction — 
and if you think about it, you can probably figure it 
out for yourself.” 

I thought about it. “Nope, I have no idea.” 

She shook her head, disappointed. “Maybe it’s too 
obvious. We just have to keep our existence a secret.” 

“Oh,” I mumbled. It was obvious. 

“It makes sense, and most of us don’t need policing,” 
she continued. “But, after a few centuries, sometimes 
one of us gets bored. Or crazy. I don’t know. And then 
the Volturi step in before it can compromise them, or 
the rest of us.” 

“So Edward ...” 

“Is planning to flout that in their own city — the city 
they’ve secretly held for three thousand years, since 
the time of the Etruscans. They are so protective of 
their city that they don’t allow hunting within its 
walls. Volterra is probably the safest city in the 
world — from vampire attack at the very least.” 

“But you said they didn’t leave. How do they eat?” 

“They don’t leave. They bring in their food from the 
outside, from quite far away sometimes. It gives their 
guard something to do when they’re not out 
annihilating mavericks. Or protecting Volterra from 
exposure ...” 



447 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“From situations like this one, like Edward,” I finished 
her sentence. It was amazingly easy to say his name 
now. I wasn’t sure what the difference was. Maybe 
because I wasn’t really planning on living much 
longer without seeing him. Or at all, if we were too 
late. It was comforting to know that I would have an 
easy out. 

“I doubt they’ve ever had a situation quite like this,” 
she muttered, disgusted. “You don’t get a lot of 
suicidal vampires.” 

The sound that escaped out of my mouth was very 
quiet, but Alice seemed to understand that it was a 
cry of pain. She wrapped her thin, strong arm around 
my shoulders. 

“Well do what we can, Bella. It’s not over yet.” 

“Not yet.” I let her comfort me, though I knew she 
thought our chances were poor. “And the Volturi will 
get us if we mess up.” 

Alice stiffened. “You say that like it’s a good thing.” 

I shrugged. 

“Knock it off, Bella, or we’re turning around in New 
York and going back to Forks.” 

“What?” 

“You know what. If we’re too late for Edward, I’m 
going to do my damnedest to get you back to Charlie, 
and I don’t want any trouble from you. Do you 
understand that?” 

“Sure, Alice.” 



448 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




She pulled back slightly so that she could glare at me. 
“No trouble.” 

“Scout’s honor,” I muttered. 

She rolled her eyes. 

“Let me concentrate, now. I’m trying to see what he’s 
planning.” 

She left her arm around me, but let her head fall back 
against the seat and closed her eyes. She pressed her 
free hand to the side of her face, rubbing her 
fingertips against her temple. 

I watched her in fascination for a long time. 
Eventually, she became utterly motionless, her face 
like a stone sculpture. The minutes passed, and if I 
didn’t know better, I would have thought she’d fallen 
asleep. I didn’t dare interrupt her to ask what was 
going on. 

I wished there was something safe for me to think 
about. I couldn’t allow myself to consider the horrors 
we were headed toward, or, more horrific yet, the 
chance that we might fail — not if I wanted to keep 
from screaming aloud. 

I couldn’t anticipate anything, either. Maybe, if I were 
very, very, very lucky, I would somehow be able to 
save Edward. But I wasn’t so stupid as to think that 
saving him would mean that I could stay with him. I 
was no different, no more special than I’d been before. 
There would be no new reason for him to want me 
now. Seeing him and losing him again... 

I fought back against the pain. This was the price I 
had to pay to save his life. I would pay it. 



449 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




They showed a movie, and my neighbor got 
headphones. Sometimes I watched the figures moving 
across the little screen, but I couldn’t even tell if the 
movie was supposed to be a romance or a horror film. 

After an eternity, the plane began to descend toward 
New York City. Alice remained in her trance. I 
dithered, reaching out to touch her, only to pull my 
hand back again. This happened a dozen times before 
the plane touched town with a jarring impact. 

“Alice,” I finally said. “Alice, we have to go.” 

I touched her arm. 

Her eyes came open very slowly. She shook her head 
from side to side for a moment. 

“Anything new?” I asked in a low voice, conscious of 
the man listening on the other side of me. 

“Not exactly,” she breathed in a voice I could barely 
catch. “He’s getting closer. He’s deciding how he’s 
going to ask.” 

We had to run for our connection, but that was 
good — better than having to wait. As soon as the 
plane was in the air, Alice closed her eyes and slid 
back into the same stupor as before. I waited as 
patiently as I could. When it was dark again, I opened 
the window to stare out into the flat black that was no 
better than the window shade. 

I was grateful that I’d had so many months’ practice 
with controlling my thoughts. Instead of dwelling on 
the terrifying possibilities that, no matter what Alice 
said, I did not intend to survive, I concentrated on 
lesser problems. Like, what I was going to say to 
Charlie if I got back? That was a thorny enough 
450 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




problem to occupy several hours. And Jacob? He’d 
promised to wait for me, but did that promise still 
apply? Would I end up home alone in Forks, with no 
one at all? Maybe I didn’t want to survive, no matter 
what happened. 

It felt like seconds later when Alice shook my 
shoulder — I hadn’t realized I’d fallen asleep. 

“Bella,” she hissed, her voice a little too loud in the 
darkened cabin full of sleeping humans. 

I wasn’t disoriented — I hadn’t been out long enough 
for that. 

“What’s wrong?” 

Alice’s eyes gleamed in the dim light of a reading lamp 
in the row behind us. 

“It’s not wrong.” She smiled fiercely. “It’s right. They’re 
deliberating, but they’ve decided to tell him no.” 

“The Volturi?” I muttered, groggy. 

“Of course, Bella, keep up. I can see what they’re 
going to say.” 

“Tell me.” 

An attendant tiptoed down the aisle to us. “Can I get 
you ladies a pillow?” His hushed whisper was a 
rebuke to our comparatively loud conversation. 

“No, thank you.” Alice beamed at up at him, her smile 
shockingly lovely. The attendant’s expression was 
dazed as he turned and stumbled his way back. 

“Tell me,” I breathed almost silently. 

451 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




She whispered into my ear. “They’re interested in 
him — they think his talent could be useful. They’re 
going to offer him a place with them.” 

“What will he say?” 

“I can’t see that yet, but I’ll bet it’s colorful.” She 
grinned again. “This is the first good news — the first 
break. They’re intrigued; they truly don’t want to 
destroy him — ‘wasteful,’ that’s the word Aro will use — 
and that may be enough to force him to get creative. 
The longer he spends on his plans, the better for us.” 

It wasn’t enough to make me hopeful, to make me feel 
the relief she obviously felt. There were still so many 
ways that we could be too late. And if I didn’t get 
through the walls into the Volturi city, I wouldn’t be 
able to stop Alice from dragging me back home. 

“Alice?” 

“What?” 

“I’m confused. How are you seeing this so clearly? 

And then other times, you see things far away — things 
that don’t happen?” 

Her eyes tightened. I wondered if she guessed what I 
was thinking of. 

“It’s clear because it’s immediate and close, and I’m 
really concentrating. The faraway things that come on 
their own — those are just glimpses, faint maybes. 

Plus, I see my kind more easily than yours. Edward is 
even easier because I’m so attuned to him.” 

“You see me sometimes,” I reminded her. 

She shook her head. “Not as clearly.” 

452 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I sighed. “I really wish you could have been right 
about me. In the beginning, when you first saw things 
about me, before we even met ...” 

“What do you mean?” 

“You saw me become one of you.” I barely mouthed 
the words. 

She sighed. “It was a possibility at the time.” 

“At the time,” I repeated. 

“Actually, Bella ...” She hesitated, and then seemed 
to make a choice. “Honestly, I think it’s all gotten 
beyond ridiculous. I’m debating whether to just 
change you myself.” 

I stared at her, frozen with shock. Instantly, my mind 
resisted her words. I couldn’t afford that kind of hope 
if she changed her mind. 

“Did I scare you?” she wondered. “I thought that’s 
what you wanted.” 

“I do!” I gasped. “Oh, Alice, do it now! I could help you 
so much — and I wouldn’t slow you down. Bite me!” 

“Shh,” she cautioned. The attendant was looking in 
our direction again. “Try to be reasonable,” she 
whispered. “We don’t have enough time. We have to 
get into Volterra tomorrow. You’d be writhing in pain 
for days.” She made a face. “And I don’t think the 
other passengers would react well.” 

I bit my lip. “If you don’t do it now, you’ll change your 
mind.” 



453 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“No.” She frowned, her expression unhappy. “I don’t 
think I will. He’ll be furious, but what will he be able 
to do about it?” 

My heart beat faster. “Nothing at all.” 

She laughed quietly, and then sighed. “You have too 
much faith in me, Bella. I’m not sure that I can. I’ll 
probably just end up killing you.” 

“I’ll take my chances.” 

“You are so bizarre, even for a human.” 

“Thanks.” 

“Oh well, this is purely hypothetical at this point, 
anyway. First we have to live through tomorrow.” 

“Good point.” But at least I had something to hope for 
if we did. If Alice made good on her promise — and if 
she didn’t kill me — then Edward could run after his 
distractions all he wanted, and I could follow. I 
wouldn’t let him be distracted. Maybe, when I was 
beautiful and strong, he wouldn’t want distractions. 

“Go back to sleep,” she encouraged me. “I’ll wake you 
up when there’s something new.” 

“Right,” I grumbled, certain that sleep was a lost 
cause now. Alice pulled her legs up on the seat, 
wrapping her arms around them and leaning her 
forehead against her knees. She rocked back and 
forth as she concentrated. 

I rested my head against the seat, watching her, and 
the next thing I knew, she was snapping the shade 
closed against the faint brightening in the eastern 
sky. 

454 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What’s happening?” I mumbled. 

“They’ve told him no,” she said quietly. I noticed at 
once that her enthusiasm was gone. 

My voice choked in my throat with panic. “What’s he 
going to do?” 

“It was chaotic at first. I was only getting flickers, he 
was changing plans so quickly.” 

“What kinds of plans?” I pressed. 

“There was a bad hour,” she whispered. “He’d decided 
to go hunting.” 

She looked at me, seeing the incomprehension in my 
face. 

“In the city,” she explained. “It got very close. He 
changed his mind at the last minute.” 

“He wouldn’t want to disappoint Carlisle,” I mumbled. 
Not at the end. 

“Probably,” she agreed. 

“Will there be enough time?” As I spoke, there was a 
shift in the cabin pressure. I could feel the plane 
angling downward. 

“I’m hoping so — if he sticks to his latest decision, 
maybe.” 

“What is that?” 

“He’s going to keep it simple. He’s just going to walk 
out into the sun.” 



455 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Just walk out into the sun. That was all. 



It would be enough. The image of Edward in the 
meadow — glowing, shimmering like his skin was 
made of a million diamond facets — was burned into 
my memory. No human who saw that would ever 
forget. The Volturi couldn’t possibly allow it. Not if 
they wanted to keep their city inconspicuous. 

I looked at the slight gray glow that shone through 
the opened windows. “We’ll be too late,” I whispered, 
my throat closing in panic. 

She shook her head. “Right now, he’s leaning toward 
the melodramatic. He wants the biggest audience 
possible, so he’ll choose the main plaza, under the 
clock tower. The walls are high there. He’ll wait till the 
sun is exactly overhead.” 

“So we have till noon?” 

“If we’re lucky. If he sticks with this decision.” 

The pilot came on over the intercom, announcing, 
first in French and then in English, our imminent 
landing. The seat belt lights dinged and flashed. 

“How far is it from Florence to Volterra?” 

“That depends on how fast you drive.... Bella?” 

“Yes?” 

She eyed me speculatively. “How strongly are you 
opposed to grand theft auto?” 

A bright yellow Porsche screamed to a stop a few feet 
in front of where I paced, the word TURBO scrawled 



456 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




in silver cursive across its back. Everyone beside me 
on the crowded airport sidewalk stared. 



“Hurry, Bella!” Alice shouted impatiently through the 
open passenger window. 

I ran to the door and threw myself in, feeling as 
though I might as well be wearing a black stocking 
over my head. 

“Sheesh, Alice,” I complained. “Could you pick a more 
conspicuous car to steal?” 

The interior was black leather, and the windows were 
tinted dark. It felt safer inside, like nighttime. 

Alice was already weaving, too fast, through the thick 
airport traffic — sliding through tiny spaces between 
the cars as I cringed and fumbled for my seat belt. 

“The important question,” she corrected, “is whether I 
could have stolen a faster car, and I don’t think so. I 
got lucky.” 

“I’m sure that will be very comforting at the 
roadblock.” 

She trilled a laugh. “Trust me, Bella. If anyone sets up 
a roadblock, it will be behind us.” She hit the gas 
then, as if to prove her point. 

I probably should have watched out the window as 
first the city of Florence and then the Tuscan 
landscape flashed past with blurring speed. This was 
my first trip anywhere, and maybe my last, too. But 
Alice’s driving frightened me, despite the fact that I 
knew I could trust her behind the wheel. And I was 
too tortured with anxiety to really see the hills or the 
walled towns that looked like castles in the distance. 
457 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you see anything more?” 



“There’s something going on,” Alice muttered. “Some 
kind of festival. The streets are full of people and red 
flags. What’s the date today?” 

I wasn’t entirely sure. “The nineteenth, maybe?” 

“Well, that’s ironic. It’s Saint Marcus Day.” 

“Which means?” 

She chuckled darkly. “The city holds a celebration 
every year. As the legend goes, a Christian 
missionary, a Father Marcus — Marcus of the Volturi, 
in fact — drove all the vampires from Volterra fifteen 
hundred years ago. The story claims he was martyred 
in Romania, still trying to drive away the vampire 
scourge. Of course that’s nonsense — he’s never left 
the city. But that’s where some of the superstitions 
about things like crosses and garlic come from. 

Father Marcus used them so successfully. And 
vampires don’t trouble Volterra, so they must work.” 
Her smile was sardonic. “It’s become more of a 
celebration of the city, and recognition for the police 
force — after all, Volterra is an amazingly safe city. The 
police get the credit.” 

I was realizing what she meant when she’d said 
ironic. “They’re not going to be very happy if Edward 
messes things up for them on St. Marcus Day, are 
they?” 

She shook her head, her expression grim. “No. They’ll 
act very quickly.” 

I looked away, fighting against my teeth as they tried 
to break through the skin of my lower lip. Bleeding 
was not the best idea right now. 

458 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The sun was terrifyingly high in the pale blue sky. 

“He’s still planning on noon?” I checked. 

“Yes. He’s decided to wait. And they’re waiting for 
him.” 

“Tell me what I have to do.” 

She kept her eyes on the winding road — the needle on 
the speedometer was touching the far right on the 
dial. 

“You don’t have to do anything. He just has to see you 
before he moves into the light. And he has to see you 
before he sees me.” 

“How are we going to work that?” 

A small red car seemed to be racing backward as 
Alice zoomed around it. 

“I’m going to get you as close as possible, and then 
you’re going to run in the direction I point you.” 

I nodded. 

“Try not to trip,” she added. “We don’t have time for a 
concussion today.” 

I groaned. That would be just like me — ruin 
everything, destroy the world, in a moment of 
klutziness. 

The sun continued to climb in the sky while Alice 
raced against it. It was too bright, and that had me 
panicking. Maybe he wouldn’t feel the need to wait for 
noon after all. 



459 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“There,” Alice said abruptly, pointing to the castle city 
atop the closest hill. 

I stared at it, feeling the very first hint of a new kind 
of fear. Every minute since yesterday morning — it 
seemed like a week ago — when Alice had spoken his 
name at the foot of the stairs, there had been only one 
fear. And yet, now, as I stared at the ancient sienna 
walls and towers crowning the peak of the steep hill, I 
felt another, more selfish kind of dread thrill through 
me. 

I supposed the city was very beautiful. It absolutely 
terrified me. 

“Volterra,” Alice announced in a flat, icy voice. 



460 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





We began the steep climb, and the road grew 
congested. As we wound higher, the cars became too 
close together for Alice to weave insanely between 
them anymore. We slowed to a crawl behind a little 
tan Peugeot. 

“Alice,” I moaned. The clock on the dash seemed to be 
speeding up. 

“It’s the only way in,” she tried soothe me. But her 
voice was too strained to comfort. 

The cars continued to edge forward, one car length at 
a time. The sun beamed down brilliantly, seeming 
already overhead. 

The cars crept one by one toward the city. As we got 
closer, I could see cars parked by the side of the road 
with people getting out to walk the rest of the way. At 
first I thought it was just impatience — something I 
could easily understand. But then we came around a 
switchback, and I could see the filled parking lot 
outside the city wall, the crowds of people walking 
through the gates. No one was being allowed to drive 
through. 

“Alice,” I whispered urgently. 

“I know,” she said. Her face was chiseled from ice. 

Now that I was looking, and we were crawling slowly 
enough to see, I could tell that it was very windy. The 
people crowding toward the gate gripped their hats 
and tugged their hair out of their faces. Their clothes 

461 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



billowed around them. I also noticed that the color 
red was everywhere. Red shirts, red hats, red flags 
dripping like long ribbons beside the gate, whipping 
in the wind — as I watched, the brilliant crimson scarf 
one woman had tied around her hair was caught in a 
sudden gust. It twisted up into the air above her, 
writhing like it was alive. She reached for it, jumping 
in the air, but it continued to flutter higher, a patch of 
bloody color against the dull, ancient walls. 

“Bella.” Alice spoke quickly in a fierce, low voice. “I 
can’t see what the guard here will decide now — if this 
doesn’t work, you’re going to have to go in alone. 
You’re going to have to run. Just keep asking for the 
Palazzo dei Priori, and running in the direction they 
tell you. Don’t get lost.” 

“Palazzo dei Priori, Palazzo dei Priori,” I repeated the 
name over and over again, trying to get it down. 

“Or ‘the clock tower,’ if they speak English. I’ll go 
around and try to find a secluded spot somewhere 
behind the city where I can go over the wall.” 

I nodded. “Palazzo dei Priori.” 

“Edward will be under the clock tower, to the north of 
the square. There’s a narrow alleyway on the right, 
and he’ll be in the shadow there. You have to get his 
attention before he can move into the sun.” 

I nodded furiously. 

Alice was near the front of the line. A man in a navy 
blue uniform was directing the flow of traffic, turning 
the cars away from the full lot. They U-turned and 
headed back to find a place beside the road. Then it 
was Alice’s turn. 



462 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The uniformed man motioned lazily, not paying 
attention. Alice accelerated, edging around him and 
heading for the gate. He shouted something at us, but 
held his ground, waving frantically to keep the next 
car from following our bad example. 

The man at the gate wore a matching uniform. As we 
approached him, the throngs of tourists passed, 
crowding the sidewalks, staring curiously at the 
pushy, flashy Porsche. 

The guard stepped into the middle of the street. Alice 
angled the car carefully before she came to a full stop. 
The sun beat against my window, and she was in 
shadow. She swiftly reached behind the seat and 
grabbed something from her bag. 

The guard came around the car with an irritated 
expression, and tapped on her window angrily. 

She rolled the window down halfway, and I watched 
him do a double take when he saw the face behind 
the dark glass. 

“I’m sorry, only tour buses allowed in the city today, 
miss,” he said in English, with a heavy accent. He 
was apologetic, now, as if he wished he had better 
news for the strikingly beautiful woman. 

“It’s a private tour,” Alice said, flashing an alluring 
smile. She reached her hand out of the window, into 
the sunlight. I froze, until I realized she was wearing 
an elbow-length, tan glove. She took his hand, still 
raised from tapping her window, and pulled it into the 
car. She put something into his palm, and folded his 
fingers around it. 



463 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




His face was dazed as he retrieved his hand and 
stared at the thick roll of money he now held. The 
outside bill was a thousand dollar bill. 

“Is this a joke?” he mumbled. 

Alice’s smile was blinding. “Only if you think it’s 
funny.” 

He looked at her, his eyes staring wide. I glanced 
nervously at the clock on the dash. If Edward stuck to 
his plan, we had only five minutes left. 

“I’m in a wee bit of a hurry,” she hinted, still smiling. 

The guard blinked twice, and then shoved the money 
inside his vest. He took a step away from the window 
and waved us on. None of the passing people seemed 
to notice the quiet exchange. Alice drove into the city, 
and we both sighed in relief. 

The street was very narrow, cobbled with the same 
color stones as the faded cinnamon brown buildings 
that darkened the street with their shade. It had the 
feel of an alleyway. Red flags decorated the walls, 
spaced only a few yards apart, flapping in the wind 
that whistled through the narrow lane. 

It was crowded, and the foot traffic slowed our 
progress. 

“Just a little farther,” Alice encouraged me; I was 
gripping the door handle, ready to throw myself into 
the street as soon as she spoke the word. 

She drove in quick spurts and sudden stops, and the 
people in the crowd shook their fists at us and said 
angry words that I was glad I couldn’t understand. 

She turned onto a little path that couldn’t have been 

464 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




meant for cars; shocked people had to squeeze into 
doorways as we scraped by. We found another street 
at the end. The buildings were taller here; they leaned 
together overhead so that no sunlight touched the 
pavement — the thrashing red flags on either side 
nearly met. The crowd was thicker here than 
anywhere else. Alice stopped the car. I had the door 
open before we were at a standstill. 

She pointed to where the street widened into a patch 
of bright openness. “There — we’re at the southern end 
of the square. Run straight across, to the right of the 
clock tower. I’ll find a way around — ” 

Her breath caught suddenly, and when she spoke 
again, her voice was a hiss. “They’re everywhere!” 

I froze in place, but she pushed me out of the car. 
“Forget about them. You have two minutes. Go, Bella, 
go!” she shouted, climbing out of the car as she 
spoke. 

I didn’t pause to watch Alice melt into the shadows. I 
didn’t stop to close my door behind me. I shoved a 
heavy woman out of my way and ran flat out, head 
down, paying little attention to anything but the 
uneven stones beneath my feet. 

Coming out of the dark lane, I was blinded by the 
brilliant sunlight beating down into the principal 
plaza. The wind whooshed into me, flinging my hair 
into my eyes and blinding me further. It was no 
wonder that I didn’t see the wall of flesh until I’d 
smacked into it. 

There was no pathway, no crevice between the close 
pressed bodies. I pushed against them furiously, 
fighting the hands that shoved back. I heard 
exclamations of irritation and even pain as I battled 

465 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




my way through, but none were in a language I 
understood. The faces were a blur of anger and 
surprise, surrounded by the ever-present red. A blond 
woman scowled at me, and the red scarf coiled 
around her neck looked like a gruesome wound. A 
child, lifted on a man’s shoulders to see over the 
crowd, grinned down at me, his lips distended over a 
set of plastic vampire fangs. 

The throng jostled around me, spinning me the wrong 
direction. I was glad the clock was so visible, or I’d 
never keep my course straight. But both hands on the 
clock pointed up toward the pitiless sun, and, though 
I shoved viciously against the crowd, I knew I was too 
late. I wasn’t halfway across. I wasn’t going to make 
it. I was stupid and slow and human, and we were all 
going to die because of it. 

I hoped Alice would get out. I hoped that she would 
see me from some dark shadow and know that I had 
failed, so she could go home to Jasper. 

I listened, above the angry exclamations, trying to 
hear the sound of discovery: the gasp, maybe the 
scream, as Edward came into someone’s view. 

But there was a break in the crowd — I could see a 
bubble of space ahead. I pushed urgently toward it, 
not realizing till I bruised my shins against the bricks 
that there was a wide, square fountain set into the 
center of the plaza. 

I was nearly crying with relief as I flung my leg over 
the edge and ran through the knee-deep water. It 
sprayed all around me as I thrashed my way across 
the pool. Even in the sun, the wind was glacial, and 
the wet made the cold actually painful. But the 
fountain was very wide; it let me cross the center of 
the square and then some in mere seconds. I didn’t 
466 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




pause when I hit the far edge — I used the low wall as 
a springboard, throwing myself into the crowd. 



They moved more readily for me now, avoiding the icy 
water that splattered from my dripping clothes as I 
ran. I glanced up at the clock again. 

A deep, booming chime echoed through the square. It 
throbbed in the stones under my feet. Children cried, 
covering their ears. And I started screaming as I ran. 

“Edward!” I screamed, knowing it was useless. The 
crowd was too loud, and my voice was breathless with 
exertion. But I couldn’t stop screaming. 

The clock tolled again. I ran past a child in his 
mother’s arms — his hair was almost white in the 
dazzling sunlight. A circle of tall men, all wearing red 
blazers, called out warnings as I barreled through 
them. The clock tolled again. 

On the other side of the men in blazers, there was a 
break in the throng, space between the sightseers 
who milled aimlessly around me. My eyes searched 
the dark narrow passage to the right of the wide 
square edifice under the tower. I couldn’t see the 
street level — there were still too many people in the 
way. The clock tolled again. 

It was hard to see now. Without the crowd to break 
the wind, it whipped at my face and burned my eyes. 

I couldn’t be sure if that was the reason behind my 
tears, or if I was crying in defeat as the clock tolled 
again. 

A little family of four stood nearest to the alley’s 
mouth. The two girls wore crimson dresses, with 
matching ribbons tying their dark hair back. The 
father wasn’t tall. It seemed like I could see something 

467 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




bright in the shadows, just over his shoulder. I 
hurtled toward them, trying to see past the stinging 
tears. The clock tolled, and the littlest girl clamped 
her hands over her ears. 

The older girl, just waist high on her mother, hugged 
her mother’s leg and stared into the shadows behind 
them. As I watched, she tugged on her mother’s elbow 
and pointed toward the darkness. The clock tolled, 
and I was so close now. 

I was close enough to hear her high-pitched voice. 

Her father stared at me in surprise as I bore down on 
them, rasping out Edward’s name over and over 
again. 

The older girl giggled and said something to her 
mother, gesturing toward the shadows again 
impatiently. 

I swerved around the father — he clutched the baby 
out of my way — and sprinted for the gloomy breach 
behind them as the clock tolled over my head. 

“Edward, no!” I screamed, but my voice was lost in 
the roar of the chime. 

I could see him now. And I could see that he could 
not see me. 

It was really him, no hallucination this time. And I 
realized that my delusions were more flawed than I’d 
realized; they’d never done him justice. 

Edward stood, motionless as a statue, just a few feet 
from the mouth of the alley. His eyes were closed, the 
rings underneath them deep purple, his arms relaxed 
at his sides, his palms turned forward. His expression 
was very peaceful, like he was dreaming pleasant 
468 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




things. The marble skin of his chest was bare — there 
was a small pile of white fabric at his feet. The light 
reflecting from the pavement of the square gleamed 
dimly from his skin. 

I’d never seen anything more beautiful — even as I ran, 
gasping and screaming, I could appreciate that. And 
the last seven months meant nothing. And his words 
in the forest meant nothing. And it did not matter if 
he did not want me. I would never want anything but 
him, no matter how long I lived. 

The clock tolled, and he took a large stride toward the 
light. 

“No!” I screamed. “Edward, look at me!” 

He wasn’t listening. He smiled very slightly. He raised 
his foot to take the step that would put him directly in 
the path of the sun. 

I slammed into him so hard that the force would have 
hurled me to the ground if his arms hadn’t caught me 
and held me up. It knocked my breath out of me and 
snapped my head back. 

His dark eyes opened slowly as the clock tolled again. 

He looked down at me with quiet surprise. 

“Amazing,” he said, his exquisite voice full of wonder, 
slightly amused. “Carlisle was right.” 

“Edward,” I tried to gasp, but my voice had no sound. 
“You’ve got to get back into the shadows. You have to 
move!” 

He seemed bemused. His hand brushed softly against 
my cheek. He didn’t appear to notice that I was trying 

469 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




to force him back. I could have been pushing against 
the alley walls for all the progress I was making. The 
clock tolled, but he didn’t react. 

It was very strange, for I knew we were both in mortal 
danger. Still, in that instant, I felt well. Whole. I could 
feel my heart racing in my chest, the blood pulsing 
hot and fast through my veins again. My lungs filled 
deep with the sweet scent that came off his skin. It 
was like there had never been any hole in my chest. I 
was perfect — not healed, but as if there had been no 
wound in the first place. 

“I can’t believe how quick it was. I didn’t feel a thing — 
they’re very good,” he mused, closing his eyes again 
and pressing his lips against my hair. His voice was 
like honey and velvet. “Death, that hath sucked the 
honey of thy breath, hath had no power yet upon thy 
beauty,” he murmured, and I recognized the line 
spoken by Romeo in the tomb. The clock boomed out 
its final chime. “You smell just exactly the same as 
always,” he went on. “So maybe this is hell. I don’t 
care. I’ll take it.” 

“I’m not dead,” I interrupted. “And neither are you! 
Please Edward, we have to move. They can’t be far 
away!” 

I struggled in his arms, and his brow furrowed in 
confusion. 

“What was that?” he asked politely. 

“We’re not dead, not yet! But we have to get out of 
here before the Volturi — ” 

Comprehension flickered on his face as I spoke. 

Before I could finish, he suddenly yanked me away 
from the edge of the shadows, spinning me effortlessly 

470 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




so that my back was tight against the brick wall, and 
his back was to me as he faced away into the alley. 

His arms spread wide, protectively, in front of me. 

I peeked under his arm to see two dark shapes detach 
themselves from the gloom. 

“Greetings, gentlemen,” Edward’s voice was calm and 
pleasant, on the surface. “I don’t think I’ll be 
requiring your services today. I would appreciate it 
very much, however, if you would send my thanks to 
your masters.” 

“Shall we take this conversation to a more 
appropriate venue?” a smooth voice whispered 
menacingly. 

“I don’t believe that will be necessary.” Edward’s voice 
was harder now. “I know your instructions, Felix. I 
haven’t broken any rules.” 

“Felix merely meant to point out the proximity of the 
sun,” the other shadow said in a soothing tone. They 
were both concealed within smoky gray cloaks that 
reached to the ground and undulated in the wind. 

“Let us seek better cover.” 

“I’ll be right behind you,” Edward said dryly. “Bella, 
why don’t you go back to the square and enjoy the 
festival?” 

“No, bring the girl,” the first shadow said, somehow 
injecting a leer into his whisper. 

“I don’t think so.” The pretense of civility disappeared. 
Edward’s voice was flat and icy. His weight shifted 
infinitesimally, and I could see that he was preparing 
to fight. 



471 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“No.” I mouthed the word. 



“Shh,” he murmured, only for me. 

“Felix,” the second, more reasonable shadow 
cautioned. “Not here.” He turned to Edward. “Aro 
would simply like to speak with you again, if you have 
decided not to force our hand after all.” 

“Certainly,” Edward agreed. “But the girl goes free.” 

“I’m afraid that’s not possible,” the polite shadow said 
regretfully. “We do have rules to obey.” 

“Then I’m afraid that I’ll be unable to accept Aro’s 
invitation, Demetri.” 

“That’s just fine,” Felix purred. My eyes were 
adjusting to the deep shade, and I could see that Felix 
was very big, tall and thick through the shoulders. 

His size reminded me of Emmett. 

“Aro will be disappointed,” Demetri sighed. 

“I’m sure he’ll survive the letdown,” Edward replied. 

Felix and Demetri stole closer toward the mouth of 
the alley, spreading out slightly so they could come at 
Edward from two sides. They meant to force him 
deeper into the alley, to avoid a scene. No reflected 
light found access to their skin; they were safe inside 
their cloaks. 

Edward didn’t move an inch. He was dooming himself 
by protecting me. 

Abruptly, Edward’s head whipped around, toward the 
darkness of the winding alley, and Demetri and Felix 



472 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




did the same, in response to some sound or 
movement too subtle for my senses. 

“Let’s behave ourselves, shall we?” a lilting voice 
suggested. “There are ladies present.” 

Alice tripped lightly to Edward’s side, her stance 
casual. There was no hint of any underlying tension. 
She looked so tiny, so fragile. Her little arms swung 
like a child’s. 

Yet Demetri and Felix both straightened up, their 
cloaks swirling slightly as a gust of wind funneled 
through the alley. Felix’s face soured. Apparently, 
they didn’t like even numbers. 

“We’re not alone,” she reminded them. 

Demetri glanced over his shoulder. A few yards into 
the square, the little family, with the girls in their red 
dresses, was watching us. The mother was speaking 
urgently to her husband, her eyes on the five of us. 
She looked away when Demetri met her gaze. The 
man walked a few steps farther into the plaza, and 
tapped one of the red-blazered men on the shoulder. 

Demetri shook his head. “Please, Edward, let’s be 
reasonable,” he said. 

“Let’s,” Edward agreed. “And we’ll leave quietly now, 
with no one the wiser.” 

Demetri sighed in frustration. “At least let us discuss 
this more privately.” 

Six men in red now joined the family as they watched 
us with anxious expressions. I was very conscious of 
Edward’s protective stance in front of me — sure that 



473 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




this was what caused their alarm. I wanted to scream 
to them to run. 



Edward’s teeth came together audibly. “No.” 

Felix smiled. 

“Enough.” 

The voice was high, reedy, and it came from behind 
us. 



I peeked under Edward’s other arm to see a small, 
dark shape coming toward us. By the way the edges 
billowed, I knew it would be another one of them. 

Who else? 

At first I thought it was a young boy. The newcomer 
was as tiny as Alice, with lank, pale brown hair 
trimmed short. The body under the cloak — which was 
darker, almost black — was slim and androgynous. 

But the face was too pretty for a boy. The wide-eyed, 
full-lipped face would make a Botticelli angel look like 
a gargoyle. Even allowing for the dull crimson irises. 

Her size was so insignificant that the reaction to her 
appearance confused me. Felix and Demetri relaxed 
immediately, stepping back from their offensive 
positions to blend again with the shadows of the 
overhanging walls. 

Edward dropped his arms and relaxed his position as 
well — but in defeat. 

“Jane,” he sighed in recognition and resignation. 

Alice folded her arms across her chest, her expression 
impassive. 



474 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Follow me,” Jane spoke again, her childish voice a 
monotone. She turned her back on us and drifted 
silently into the dark. 

Felix gestured for us to go first, smirking. 

Alice walked after the little Jane at once. Edward 
wrapped his arm around my waist and pulled me 
along beside her. The alley angled slightly downward 
as it narrowed. I looked up at him with frantic 
questions in my eyes, but he just shook his head. 
Though I couldn’t hear the others behind us, I was 
sure they were there. 

“Well, Alice,” Edward said conversationally as we 
walked. “I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised to see you 
here.” 

“It was my mistake,” Alice answered in the same tone. 
“It was my job to set it right.” 

“What happened?” His voice was polite, as if he were 
barely interested. I imagined this was due to the 
listening ears behind us. 

“It’s a long story.” Alice’s eyes flickered toward me and 
away. “In summary, she did jump off a cliff, but she 
wasn’t trying to kill herself. Bella’s all about the 
extreme sports these days.” 

I flushed and turned my eyes straight ahead, looking 
after the dark shadow that I could no longer see. I 
could imagine what he was hearing in Alice’s 
thoughts now. Near-drownings, stalking vampires, 
werewolf friends... 

“Hm,” Edward said curtly, and the casual tone of his 
voice was gone. 



475 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




There was a loose curve to the alley, still slanting 
downward, so I didn’t see the squared-off dead end 
coming until we reached the flat, windowless, brick 
face. The little one called Jane was nowhere to be 
seen. 

Alice didn’t hesitate, didn’t break pace as she strode 
toward the wall. Then, with easy grace, she slid down 
an open hole in the street. 

It looked like a drain, sunk into the lowest point of 
the paving. I hadn’t noticed it until Alice disappeared, 
but the grate was halfway pushed aside. The hole was 
small, and black. 

I balked. 

“It’s all right, Bella,” Edward said in a low voice. “Alice 
will catch you.” 

I eyed the hole doubtfully. I imagine he would have 
gone first, if Demetri and Felix hadn’t been waiting, 
smug and silent, behind us. 

I crouched down, swinging my legs into the narrow 
gap. 

“Alice?” I whispered, voice trembling. 

“I’m right here, Bella,” she reassured me. Her voice 
came from too far below to make me feel better. 

Edward took my wrists — his hands felt like stones in 
winter — and lowered me into the blackness. 

“Ready?” he asked. 

“Drop her,” Alice called. 



476 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I closed my eyes so I couldn’t see the darkness, 
scrunching them together in terror, clamping my 
mouth shut so I wouldn’t scream. Edward let me fall. 

It was silent and short. The air whipped past me for 
just half a second, and then, with a huff as I exhaled, 
Alice’s waiting arms caught me. 

I was going to have bruises; her arms were very hard. 
She stood me upright. 

It was dim, but not black at the bottom. The light 
from the hole above provided a faint glow, reflecting 
wetly from the stones under my feet. The light 
vanished for a second, and then Edward was a faint, 
white radiance beside me. He put his arm around me, 
holding me close to his side, and began to tow me 
swiftly forward. I wrapped both arms around his cold 
waist, and tripped and stumbled my way across the 
uneven stone surface. The sound of the heavy grate 
sliding over the drain hole behind us rang with 
metallic finality. 

The dim light from the street was quickly lost in the 
gloom. The sound of my staggering footsteps echoed 
through the black space; it sounded very wide, but I 
couldn’t be sure. There were no sounds other than my 
frantic heartbeat and my feet on the wet stones — 
except for once, when an impatient sigh whispered 
from behind me. 

Edward held me tightly. He reached his free hand 
across his body to hold my face, too, his smooth 
thumb tracing across my lips. Now and then, I felt his 
face press into my hair. I realized that this was the 
only reunion we would get, and I clutched myself 
closer to him. 



477 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




For now, it felt like he wanted me, and that was 
enough to offset the horror of the subterranean 
tunnel and the prowling vampires behind us. It was 
probably no more than guilt — the same guilt that 
compelled him to come here to die when he’d believed 
that it was his fault that I’d killed myself. But I felt 
his lips press silently against my forehead, and I 
didn’t care what the motivation was. At least I could 
be with him again before I died. That was better than 
a long life. 

I wished I could ask him exactly what was going to 
happen now. I wanted desperately to know how we 
were going to die — as if that would somehow make it 
better, knowing in advance. But I couldn’t speak, 
even in a whisper, surrounded as we were. The others 
could hear everything — my every breath, my every 
heartbeat. 

The path beneath our feet continued to slant 
downward, taking us deeper into the ground, and it 
made me claustrophobic. Only Edward’s hand, 
soothing against my face, kept me from screaming out 
loud. 

I couldn’t tell where the light was coming from, but it 
slowly turned dark gray instead of black. We were in a 
low, arched tunnel. Long trails of ebony moisture 
seeped down the gray stones, like they were bleeding 
ink. 

I was shaking, and I thought it was from fear. It 
wasn’t until my teeth started to chatter together that I 
realized I was cold. My clothes were still wet, and the 
temperature underneath the city was wintry. As was 
Edward’s skin. 

He realized this at the same time I did, and let go of 
me, keeping only my hand. 

478 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“N-n-no,” I chattered, throwing my arms around him. 
I didn’t care if I froze. Who knew how long we had 
left? 



His cold hand chafed against my arm, trying to warm 
me with the friction. 

We hurried through the tunnel, or it felt like hurrying 
to me. My slow progress irritated someone — I guessed 
Felix — and I heard him heave a sigh now and then. 

At the end of the tunnel was a grate — the iron bars 
were rusting, but thick as my arm. A small door made 
of thinner, interlaced bars was standing open. 

Edward ducked through and hurried on to a larger, 
brighter stone room. The grille slammed shut with a 
clang, followed by the snap of a lock. I was too afraid 
to look behind me. 

On the other side of the long room was a low, heavy 
wooden door. It was very thick — as I could tell 
because it, too, stood open. 

We stepped through the door, and I glanced around 
me in surprise, relaxing automatically. Beside me, 
Edward tensed, his jaw clenched tight. 



479 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





We were in a brightly lit, unremarkable hallway. The 
walls were off-white, the floor carpeted in industrial 
gray. Common rectangular fluorescent lights were 
spaced evenly along the ceiling. It was warmer here, 
for which I was grateful. This hall seemed very benign 
after the gloom of the ghoulish stone sewers. 

Edward didn’t seem to agree with my assessment. He 
glowered darkly down the long hallway, toward the 
slight, black shrouded figure at the end, standing by 
an elevator. 

He pulled me along, and Alice walked on my other 
side. The heavy door creaked shut behind us, and 
then there was the thud of a bolt sliding home. 

Jane waited by the elevator, one hand holding the 
doors open for us. Her expression was apathetic. 

Once inside the elevator, the three vampires that 
belonged to the Volturi relaxed further. They threw 
back their cloaks, letting the hoods fall back on their 
shoulders. Felix and Demetri were both of a slightly 
olive complexion — it looked odd combined with their 
chalky pallor. Felix’s black hair was cropped short, 
but Demetri ’s waved to his shoulders. Their irises 
were deep crimson around the edges, darkening until 
they were black around the pupil. Under the shrouds, 
their clothes were modern, pale, and nondescript. I 
cowered in the corner, cringing against Edward. His 
hand still rubbed against my arm. He never took his 
eyes off Jane. 



480 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



The elevator ride was short; we stepped out into what 
looked like a posh office reception area. The walls 
were paneled in wood, the floors carpeted in thick, 
deep green. There were no windows, but large, 
brightly lit paintings of the Tuscan countryside hung 
everywhere as replacements. Pale leather couches 
were arranged in cozy groupings, and the glossy 
tables held crystal vases full of vibrantly colored 
bouquets. The flowers’ smell reminded me of a funeral 
home. 

In the middle of the room was a high, polished 
mahogany counter. I gawked in astonishment at the 
woman behind it. 

She was tall, with dark skin and green eyes. She 
would have been very pretty in any other company — 
but not here. Because she was every bit as human as 
I was. I couldn’t comprehend what this human 
woman was doing here, totally at ease, surrounded by 
vampires. 

She smiled politely in welcome. “Good afternoon, 
Jane,” she said. There was no surprise in her face as 
she glanced at Jane’s company. Not Edward, his bare 
chest glinting dimly in the white lights, or even me, 
disheveled and comparatively hideous. 

Jane nodded. “Gianna.” She continued toward a set of 
double doors in the back of the room, and we 
followed. 

As Felix passed the desk, he winked at Gianna, and 
she giggled. 

On the other side of the wooden doors was a different 
kind of reception. The pale boy in the pearl gray suit 
could have been Jane’s twin. His hair was darker, 
and his lips were not as full, but he was just as 

481 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




lovely. He came forward to meet us. He smiled, 
reaching for her. “Jane.” 



“Alec,” she responded, embracing the boy. They 
kissed each other’s cheeks on both sides. Then he 
looked at us. 

“They send you out for one and you come back with 
two... and a half,” he noted, looking at me. “Nice 
work.” 

She laughed — the sound sparkled with delight like a 
baby’s cooing. 

“Welcome back, Edward,” Alec greeted him. “You 
seem in a better mood.” 

“Marginally,” Edward agreed in a flat voice. I glanced 
at Edward’s hard face, and wondered how his mood 
could have been darker before. 

Alec chuckled, and examined me as I clung to 
Edward’s side. “And this is the cause of all the 
trouble?” he asked, skeptical. 

Edward only smiled, his expression contemptuous. 
Then he froze. 

“Dibs,” Felix called casually from behind. 

Edward turned, a low snarl building deep in his 
chest. Felix smiled — his hand was raised, palm up; he 
curled his fingers twice, inviting Edward forward. 

Alice touched Edward’s arm. “Patience,” she 
cautioned him. 

They exchanged a long glance, and I wished I could 
hear what she was telling him. I figured that it was 

482 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




something to do with not attacking Felix, because 
Edward took a deep breath and turned back to Alec. 

“Aro will be so pleased to see you again,” Alec said, as 
if nothing had passed. 

“Let’s not keep him waiting,” Jane suggested. 

Edward nodded once. 

Alec and Jane, holding hands, led the way down yet 
another wide, ornate hall — would there ever be an 
end? 

They ignored the doors at the end of the hall — doors 
entirely sheathed in gold — stopping halfway down the 
hall and sliding aside a piece of the paneling to 
expose a plain wooden door. It wasn’t locked. Alec 
held it open for Jane. 

I wanted to groan when Edward pulled me through to 
the other side of the door. It was the same ancient 
stone as the square, the alley, and the sewers. And it 
was dark and cold again. 

The stone antechamber was not large. It opened 
quickly into a brighter, cavernous room, perfectly 
round like a huge castle turret... which was probably 
exactly what it was. Two stories up, long window slits 
threw thin rectangles of bright sunlight onto the stone 
floor below. There were no artificial lights. The only 
furniture in the room were several massive wooden 
chairs, like thrones, that were spaced unevenly, flush 
with the curving stone walls. In the very center of the 
circle, in a slight depression, was another drain. I 
wondered if they used it as an exit, like the hole in 
the street. 



483 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The room was not empty. A handful of people were 
convened in seemingly relaxed conversation. The 
murmur of low, smooth voices was a gentle hum in 
the air. As I watched, a pair of pale women in summer 
dresses paused in a patch of light, and, like prisms, 
their skin threw the light in rainbow sparkles against 
the sienna walls. 

The exquisite faces all turned toward our party as we 
entered the room. Most of the immortals were dressed 
in inconspicuous pants and shirts — things that 
wouldn’t stick out at all on the streets below. But the 
man who spoke first wore one of the long robes. It 
was pitch-black, and brushed against the floor. For a 
moment, I thought his long, jet-black hair was the 
hood of his cloak. 

“Jane, dear one, you’ve returned!” he cried in evident 
delight. His voice was just a soft sighing. 

He drifted forward, and the movement flowed with 
such surreal grace that I gawked, my mouth hanging 
open. Even Alice, whose every motion looked like 
dancing, could not compare. 

I was only more astonished as he floated closer and I 
could see his face. It was not like the unnaturally 
attractive faces that surrounded him (for he did not 
approach us alone; the entire group converged 
around him, some following, and some walking ahead 
of him with the alert manner of bodyguards). I 
couldn’t decide if his face was beautiful or not. I 
suppose the features were perfect. But he was as 
different from the vampires beside him as they were 
from me. His skin was translucently white, like 
onionskin, and it looked just as delicate — it stood in 
shocking contrast to the long black hair that framed 
his face. I felt a strange, horrifying urge to touch his 
cheek, to see if it was softer than Edward’s or Alice’s, 
484 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




or if it was powdery, like chalk. His eyes were red, the 
same as the others around him, but the color was 
clouded, milky; I wondered if his vision was affected 
by the haze. 

He glided to Jane, took her face in his papery hands, 
kissed her lightly on her full lips, and then floated 
back a step. 

“Yes, Master.” Jane smiled; the expression made her 
look like an angelic child. “I brought him back alive, 
just as you wished.” 

“Ah, Jane.” He smiled, too. “You are such a comfort to 
me.” 

He turned his misty eyes toward us, and the smile 
brightened — became ecstatic. 

“And Alice and Bella, too!” he rejoiced, clapping his 
thin hands together. “This is a happy surprise! 
Wonderful!” 

I stared in shock as he called our names informally, 
as if we were old friends dropping in for an 
unexpected visit. 

He turned to our hulking escort. “Felix, be a dear and 
tell my brothers about our company. I’m sure they 
wouldn’t want to miss this.” 

“Yes, Master.” Felix nodded and disappeared back the 
way we had come. 

“You see, Edward?” The strange vampire turned and 
smiled at Edward like a fond but scolding 
grandfather. “What did I tell you? Aren’t you glad that 
I didn’t give you what you wanted yesterday?” 



485 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yes, Aro, I am,” he agreed, tightening his arm around 
my waist. 

“I love a happy ending.” Aro sighed. “They are so rare. 
But I want the whole story. How did this happen? 
Alice?” He turned to gaze at Alice with curious, misty 
eyes. “Your brother seemed to think you infallible, but 
apparently there was some mistake.” 

“Oh, I’m far from infallible.” She flashed a dazzling 
smile. She looked perfectly at ease, except that her 
hands were balled into tight little fists. “As you can 
see today, I cause problems as often as I cure them.” 

“You’re too modest,” Aro chided. “I’ve seen some of 
your more amazing exploits, and I must admit I’ve 
never observed anything like your talent. Wonderful!” 

Alice flickered a glance at Edward. Aro did not miss it. 

“I’m sorry, we haven’t been introduced properly at all, 
have we? It’s just that I feel like I know you already, 
and I tend get ahead of myself. Your brother 
introduced us yesterday, in a peculiar way. You see, I 
share some of your brother’s talent, only I am limited 
in a way that he is not.” Aro shook his head; his tone 
was envious. 

“And also exponentially more powerful,” Edward 
added dryly. He looked at Alice as he swiftly 
explained. “Aro needs physical contact to hear your 
thoughts, but he hears much more than I do. You 
know I can only hear what’s passing through your 
head in the moment. Aro hears every thought your 
mind has ever had.” 

Alice raised her delicate eyebrows, and Edward 
inclined his head. 



486 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Aro didn’t miss that either. 



“But to be able to hear from a distance ...” Aro 
sighed, gesturing toward the two of them, and the 
exchange that had just taken place. “That would be 
so convenient.” 

Aro looked over our shoulders. All the other heads 
turned in the same direction, including Jane, Alec, 
and Demetri, who stood silently beside us. 

I was the slowest to turn. Felix was back, and behind 
him floated two more black-robed men. Both looked 
very much like Aro, one even had the same flowing 
black hair. The other had a shock of snow-white 
hair — the same shade as his face — that brushed 
against his shoulders. Their faces had identical, 
paper-thin skin. 

The trio from Carlisle’s painting was complete, 
unchanged by the last three hundred years since it 
was painted. 

“Marcus, Caius, look!” Aro crooned. “Bella is alive 
after all, and Alice is here with her! Isn’t that 
wonderful?” 

Neither of the other two looked as if wonderful would 
be their first choice of words. The dark-haired man 
seemed utterly bored, like he’d seen too many 
millennia of Aro’s enthusiasm. The other’s face was 
sour under the snowy hair. 

Their lack of interest did not curb Aro’s enjoyment. 

“Let us have the story,” Aro almost sang in his 
feathery voice. 



487 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




The white-haired ancient vampire drifted away, 
gliding toward one of the wooden thrones. The other 
paused beside Aro, and he reached his hand out, at 
first I thought to take Aro’s hand. But he just touched 
Aro’s palm briefly and then dropped his hand to his 
side. Aro raised one black brow. I wondered how his 
papery skin did not crumple in the effort. 

Edward snorted very quietly, and Alice looked at him, 
curious. 

“Thank you, Marcus,” Aro said. “That’s quite 
interesting.” 

I realized, a second late, that Marcus was letting Aro 
know his thoughts. 

Marcus didn’t look interested. He glided away from 
Aro to join the one who must be Caius, seated against 
the wall. Two of the attending vampires followed 
silently behind him — bodyguards, like I’d thought 
before. I could see that the two women in the 
sundresses had gone to stand beside Caius in the 
same manner. The idea of any vampire needing a 
guard was faintly ridiculous to me, but maybe the 
ancient ones were as frail as their skin suggested. 

Aro was shaking his head. “Amazing,” he said. 
“Absolutely amazing.” 

Alice’s expression was frustrated. Edward turned to 
her and explained again in a swift, low voice. “Marcus 
sees relationships. He’s surprised by the intensity of 
ours.” 

Aro smiled. “So convenient,” he repeated to himself. 
Then he spoke to us. “It takes quite a bit to surprise 
Marcus, I can assure you.” 



488 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I looked at Marcus’s dead face, and I believed that. 



“It’s just so difficult to understand, even now,” Aro 
mused, staring at Edward’s arm wrapped around me. 
It was hard for me to follow Aro’s chaotic train of 
thought. I struggled to keep up. “How can you stand 
so close to her like that?” 

“It’s not without effort,” Edward answered calmly. 

“But still — la tua cantante! What a waste!” 

Edward chuckled once without humor. “I look at it 
more as a price.” 

Aro was skeptical. “A very high price.” 

“Opportunity cost.” 

Aro laughed. “If I hadn’t smelled her through your 
memories, I wouldn’t have believed the call of 
anyone’s blood could be so strong. I’ve never felt 
anything like it myself. Most of us would trade much 
for such a gift, and yet you....” 

“Waste it,” Edward finished, his voice sarcastic now. 

Aro laughed again. “Ah, how I miss my friend Carlisle! 
You remind me of him — only he was not so angry.” 

“Carlisle outshines me in many other ways as well.” 

“I certainly never thought to see Carlisle bested for 
self-control of all things, but you put him to shame.” 

“Hardly.” Edward sounded impatient. As if he were 
tired of the preliminaries. It made me more afraid; I 
couldn’t help but try to imagine what he expected 
would follow. 

489 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I am gratified by his success,” Aro mused. “Your 
memories of him are quite a gift for me, though they 
astonish me exceedingly. I am surprised by how 
it... pleases me, his success in this unorthodox path 
he’s chosen. I expected that he would waste, weaken 
with time. I’d scoffed at his plan to find others who 
would share his peculiar vision. Yet, somehow, I’m 
happy to be wrong.” 

Edward didn’t reply. 

“But your restraint!” Aro sighed. “I did not know such 
strength was possible. To inure yourself against such 
a siren call, not just once but again and again — if I 
had not felt it myself, I would not have believed.” 

Edward gazed back at Aro’s admiration with no 
expression. I knew his face well enough — time had not 
changed that — to guess at something seething 
beneath the surface. I fought to keep my breathing 
even. 

“Just remembering how she appeals to you . . .” Aro 
chuckled. “It makes me thirsty.” 

Edward tensed. 

“Don’t be disturbed,” Aro reassured him. “I mean her 
no harm. But I am so curious, about one thing in 
particular.” He eyed me with bright interest. “May I?” 
he asked eagerly, lifting one hand. 

“Ask her,” Edward suggested in a flat voice. 

“Of course, how rude of me!” Aro exclaimed. “Bella,” 
he addressed me directly now. “I’m fascinated that 
you are the one exception to Edward’s impressive 
talent — so very interesting that such a thing should 
occur! And I was wondering, since our talents are 
490 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




similar in many ways, if you would be so kind as to 
allow me to try — to see if you are an exception for me, 
as well?” 



My eyes flashed up to Edward’s face in terror. Despite 
Aro’s overt politeness, I didn’t believe I really had a 
choice. I was horrified at the thought of allowing him 
to touch me, and yet also perversely intrigued by the 
chance to feel his strange skin. 

Edward nodded in encouragement — whether because 
he was sure Aro would not hurt me, or because there 
was no choice, I couldn’t tell. 

I turned back to Aro and raised my hand slowly in 
front of me. It was trembling. 

He glided closer, and I believe he meant his 
expression to be reassuring. But his papery features 
were too strange, too alien and frightening, to 
reassure. The look on his face was more confident 
than his words had been. 

Aro reached out, as if to shake my hand, and pressed 
his insubstantial-looking skin against mine. It was 
hard, but felt brittle — shale rather than granite — and 
even colder than I expected. 

His filmy eyes smiled down at mine, and it was 
impossible to look away. They were mesmerizing in an 
odd, unpleasant way. 

Aro’s face altered as I watched. The confidence 
wavered and became first doubt, then incredulity 
before he calmed it into a friendly mask. 

“So very interesting,” he said as he released my hand 
and drifted back. 



491 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My eyes flickered to Edward, and, though his face 
was composed, I thought he seemed a little smug. 

Aro continued to drift with a thoughtful expression. 

He was quiet for a moment, his eyes flickering 
between the three of us. Then, abruptly, he shook his 
head. 

“A first,” he said to himself. “I wonder if she is 
immune to our other talents.... Jane, dear?” 

“No!” Edward snarled the word. Alice grabbed his arm 
with a restraining hand. He shook her off. 

Little Jane smiled up happily at Aro. “Yes, Master?” 

Edward was truly snarling now, the sound ripping 
and tearing from him, glaring at Aro with baleful eyes. 
The room had gone still, everyone watching him with 
amazed disbelief, as if he were committing some 
embarrassing social faux pas. I saw Felix grin 
hopefully and move a step forward. Aro glanced at 
him once, and he froze in place, his grin turning to a 
sulky expression. 

Then he spoke to Jane. “I was wondering, my dear 
one, if Bella is immune to you.” 

I could barely hear Aro over Edward’s furious growls. 
He let go of me, moving to hide me from their view. 
Caius ghosted in our direction, with his entourage, to 
watch. 

Jane turned toward us with a beatific smile. 

“Don’t!” Alice cried as Edward launched himself at the 
little girl. 



492 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Before I could react, before anyone could jump 
between them, before Aro’s bodyguards could tense, 
Edward was on the ground. 

No one had touched him, but he was on the stone 
floor writhing in obvious agony, while I stared in 
horror. 

Jane was smiling only at him now, and it all clicked 
together. What Alice had said about formidable gifts, 
why everyone treated Jane with such deference, and 
why Edward had thrown himself in her path before 
she could do that to me. 

“Stop!” I shrieked, my voice echoing in the silence, 
jumping forward to put myself between them. But 
Alice threw her arms around me in an unbreakable 
grasp and ignored my struggles. No sound escaped 
Edward’s lips as he cringed against the stones. It felt 
like my head would explode from the pain of watching 
this. 

“Jane,” Aro recalled her in a tranquil voice. She 
looked up quickly, still smiling with pleasure, her 
eyes questioning. As soon as Jane looked away, 
Edward was still. 

Aro inclined his head toward me. 

Jane turned her smile in my direction. 

I didn’t even meet her gaze. I watched Edward from 
the prison of Alice’s arms, still struggling pointlessly. 

“He’s fine,” Alice whispered in a tight voice. As she 
spoke, he sat up, and then sprang lightly to his feet. 
His eyes met mine, and they were horror-struck. At 
first I thought the horror was for what he had just 



493 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




suffered. But then he looked quickly at Jane, and 
back to me — and his face relaxed into relief. 



I looked at Jane, too, and she no longer smiled. She 
glared at me, her jaw clenched with the intensity of 
her focus. I shrank back, waiting for the pain. 

Nothing happened. 

Edward was by my side again. He touched Alice’s 
arm, and she surrendered me to him. 

Aro started to laugh. “Ha, ha, ha,” he chuckled. “This 
is wonderful!” 

Jane hissed in frustration, leaning forward like she 
was preparing to spring. 

“Don’t be put out, dear one,” Aro said in a comforting 
tone, placing a powder-light hand on her shoulder. 
“She confounds us all.” 

Jane’s upper lip curled back over her teeth as she 
continued to glare at me. 

“Ha, ha, ha,” Aro chortled again. “You’re very brave, 
Edward, to endure in silence. I asked Jane to do that 
to me once — just out of curiosity.” He shook his head 
in admiration. 

Edward glared, disgusted. 

“So what do we do with you now?” Aro sighed. 

Edward and Alice stiffened. This was the part they’d 
been waiting for. I began to tremble. 

“I don’t suppose there’s any chance that you’ve 
changed your mind?” Aro asked Edward hopefully. 

494 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Your talent would be an excellent addition to our 
little company.” 

Edward hesitated. From the corner of my eye, I saw 
both Felix and Jane grimace. 

Edward seemed to weigh each word before he spoke 
it. “I’d... rather... not.” 

“Alice?” Aro asked, still hopeful. “Would you perhaps 
be interested in joining with us?” 

“No, thank you,” Alice said. 

“And you, Bella?” Aro raised his eyebrows. 

Edward hissed, low in my ears. I stared at Aro 
blankly. Was he joking? Or was he really asking me if 
I wanted to stay for dinner? 

It was the white-haired Caius who broke the silence. 

“What?” he demanded of Aro; his voice, though no 
more than a whisper, was flat. 

“Caius, surely you see the potential,” Aro chided him 
affectionately. “I haven’t seen a prospective talent so 
promising since we found Jane and Alec. Can you 
imagine the possibilities when she is one of us?” 

Caius looked away with a caustic expression. Jane’s 
eyes sparked with indignation at the comparison. 

Edward fumed beside me. I could hear a rumble in 
his chest, building toward a growl. I couldn’t let his 
temper get him hurt. 

“No, thank you,” I spoke up in barely more than a 
whisper, my voice breaking in fright. 

495 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Aro sighed. “That’s unfortunate. Such a waste.” 

Edward hissed. “Join or die, is that it? I suspected as 
much when we were brought to this room. So much 
for your laws.” 

The tone of his voice surprised me. He sounded irate, 
but there was something deliberate about his 
delivery — as if he’d chosen his words with great care. 

“Of course not.” Aro blinked, astonished. “We were 
already convened here, Edward, awaiting Heidi’s 
return. Not for you.” 

“Aro,” Caius hissed. “The law claims them.” 

Edward glared at Caius. “How so?” he demanded. He 
must have known what Caius was thinking, but he 
seemed determined to make him speak it aloud. 

Caius pointed a skeletal finger at me. “She knows too 
much. You have exposed our secrets.” His voice was 
papery thin, just like his skin. 

“There are a few humans in on your charade here, as 
well,” Edward reminded him, and I thought of the 
pretty receptionist below. 

Caius ’s face twisted into a new expression. Was it 
supposed to be a smile? 

“Yes,” he agreed. “But when they are no longer useful 
to us, they will serve to sustain us. That is not your 
plan for this one. If she betrays our secrets, are you 
prepared to destroy her? I think not,” he scoffed. 

“I wouldn’t — ,” I began, still whispering. Caius 
silenced me with an icy look. 



496 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nor do you intend to make her one of us,” Caius 
continued. “Therefore, she is a vulnerability. Though 
it is true, for this, only her life is forfeit. You may 
leave if you wish.” 

Edward bared his teeth. 

“That’s what I thought,” Caius said, with something 
akin to pleasure. Felix leaned forward, eager. 

“Unless...,” Aro interrupted. He looked unhappy with 
the way the conversation had gone. “Unless you do 
intend to give her immortality?” 

Edward pursed his lips, hesitating for a moment 
before he answered. “And if I do?” 

Aro smiled, happy again. “Why, then you would be 
free to go home and give my regards to my friend 
Carlisle.” His expression turned more hesitant. “But 
I’m afraid you would have to mean it.” 

Aro raised his hand in front of him. 

Caius, who had begun to scowl furiously, relaxed. 

Edward’s lips tightened into a fierce line. He stared 
into my eyes, and I stared back. 

“Mean it,” I whispered. “Please.” 

Was it really such a loathsome idea? Would he rather 
die than change me? I felt like I’d been kicked in the 
stomach. 

Edward stared down at me with a tortured 
expression. 



497 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




And then Alice stepped away from us, forward toward 
Aro. We turned to watch her. Her hand was raised 
like his. 

She didn’t say anything, and Aro waved off his 
anxious guard as they moved to block her approach. 
Aro met her halfway, and took her hand with an 
eager, acquisitive glint in his eyes. 

He bent his head over their touching hands, his eyes 
closing as he concentrated. Alice was motionless, her 
face blank. I heard Edward’s teeth snap together. 

No one moved. Aro seemed frozen over Alice’s hand. 
The seconds passed and I grew more and more 
stressed, wondering how much time would pass 
before it was too much time. Before it meant 
something was wrong — more wrong than it already 
was. 

Another agonizing moment passed, and then Aro’s 
voice broke the silence. 

“Ha, ha, ha,” he laughed, his head still bent forward. 
He looked up slowly, his eyes bright with excitement. 
“That was fascinating!” 

Alice smiled dryly. “I’m glad you enjoyed it.” 

“To see the things you’ve seen — especially the ones 
that haven’t happened yet!” He shook his head in 
wonder. 

“But that will,” she reminded him, voice calm. 

“Yes, yes, it’s quite determined. Certainly there’s no 
problem.” 



498 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Caius looked bitterly disappointed — a feeling he 
seemed to share with Felix and Jane. 

“Aro,” Caius complained. 

“Dear Caius,” Aro smiled. “Do not fret. Think of the 
possibilities! They do not join us today, but we can 
always hope for the future. Imagine the joy young 
Alice alone would bring to our little 
household.... Besides, I’m so terribly curious to see 
how Bella turns out!” 

Aro seemed convinced. Did he not realize how 
subjective Alice’s visions were? That she could make 
up her mind to transform me today, and then change 
it tomorrow? A million tiny decisions, her decisions 
and so many others’, too — Edward’s — could alter her 
path, and with that, the future. 

And would it really matter that Alice was willing, 
would it make any difference if I did become a 
vampire, when the idea was so repulsive to Edward? 

If death was, to him, a better alternative than having 
me around forever, an immortal annoyance? Terrified 
as I was, I felt myself sinking down into depression, 
drowning in it.... 

“Then we are free to go now?” Edward asked in an 
even voice. 

“Yes, yes,” Aro said pleasantly. “But please visit again. 
It’s been absolutely enthralling!” 

“And we will visit you as well,” Caius promised, his 
eyes suddenly half-closed like the heavy-lidded gaze 
of a lizard. “To be sure that you follow through on 
your side. Were I you, I would not delay too long. We 
do not offer second chances.” 



499 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s jaw clenched tight, but he nodded once. 



Caius smirked and drifted back to where Marcus still 
sat, unmoving and uninterested. 

Felix groaned. 

“Ah, Felix.” Aro smiled, amused. “Heidi will be here at 
any moment. Patience.” 

“Hmm.” Edward’s voice had a new edge to it. “In that 
case, perhaps we’d better leave sooner rather than 
later.” 

“Yes,” Aro agreed. “That’s a good idea. Accidents do 
happen. Please wait below until after dark, though, if 
you don’t mind.” 

“Of course,” Edward agreed, while I cringed at the 
thought of waiting out the day before we could 
escape. 

“And here,” Aro added, motioning to Felix with one 
finger. Felix came forward at once, and Aro 
unfastened the gray cloak the huge vampire wore, 
pulling from his shoulders. He tossed it to Edward. 
“Take this. You’re a little conspicuous.” 

Edward put the long cloak on, leaving the hood down. 

Aro sighed. “It suits you.” 

Edward chuckled, but broke off suddenly, glancing 
over his shoulder. “Thank you, Aro. We’ll wait below.” 

“Goodbye, young friends,” Aro said, his eyes bright as 
he stared in the same direction. 

“Let’s go,” Edward said, urgent now. 

500 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Demetri gestured that we should follow, and then set 
off the way we’d come in, the only exit by the look of 
things. 

Edward pulled me swiftly along beside him. Alice was 
close by my other side, her face hard. 

“Not fast enough,” she muttered. 

I stared up at her, frightened, but she only seemed 
chagrined. It was then that I first heard the babble of 
voices — loud, rough voices — coming from the 
antechamber. 

“Well this is unusual,” a man’s coarse voice boomed. 

“So medieval,” an unpleasantly shrill, female voice 
gushed back. 

A large crowd was coming through the little door, 
filling the smaller stone chamber. Demetri motioned 
for us to make room. We pressed back against the 
cold wall to let them pass. 

The couple in front, Americans from the sound of 
them, glanced around themselves with appraising 
eyes. 

“Welcome, guests! Welcome to Volterra!” I could hear 
Aro sing from the big turret room. 

The rest of them, maybe forty or more, filed in after 
the couple. Some studied the setting like tourists. A 
few even snapped pictures. Others looked confused, 
as if the story that had led them to this room was not 
making sense anymore. I noticed one small, dark 
woman in particular. Around her neck was a rosary, 
and she gripped the cross tightly in one hand. She 
walked more slowly than the others, touching 
501 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




someone now and then and asking a question in an 
unfamiliar language. No one seemed to understand 
her, and her voice grew more panicked. 

Edward pulled my face against his chest, but it was 
too late. I already understood. 

As soon as the smallest break appeared, Edward 
pushed me quickly toward the door. I could feel the 
horrified expression on my face, and the tears 
beginning to pool in my eyes. 

The ornate golden hallway was quiet, empty except for 
one gorgeous, statuesque woman. She stared at us 
curiously, me in particular. 

“Welcome home, Heidi,” Demetri greeted her from 
behind us. 

Heidi smiled absently. She reminded me of Rosalie, 
though they looked nothing alike — it was just that her 
beauty, too, was exceptional, unforgettable. I couldn’t 
seem to look away. 

She was dressed to emphasize that beauty. Her 
amazingly long legs, darkened with tights, were 
exposed by the shortest of miniskirts. Her top was 
long-sleeved and high-necked, but extremely close- 
fitting, and constructed of red vinyl. Her long 
mahogany hair was lustrous, and her eyes were the 
strangest shade of violet — a color that might result 
from blue-tinted contacts over red irises. 

“Demetri,” she responded in a silky voice, her eyes 
flickering between my face and Edward’s gray cloak. 

“Nice fishing,” Demetri complimented her, and I 
suddenly understood the attention-grabbing outfit 



502 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




she wore... she was not only the fisherman, but also 
the bait. 

“Thanks.” She flashed a stunning smile. “Aren’t you 
coming?” 

“In a minute. Save a few for me.” 

Heidi nodded and ducked through the door with one 
last curious look at me. 

Edward set a pace that had me running to keep up. 
But we still couldn’t get through the ornate door at 
the end of the hallway before the screaming started. 



503 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





Demetri left us in the cheerfully opulent reception 
area, where the woman Gianna was still at her post 
behind the polished counter. Bright, harmless music 
tinkled from hidden speakers. 

“Do not leave until dark,” he warned us. 

Edward nodded, and Demetri hurried away. 

Gianna did not seem at all surprised by the exchange, 
though she did eye Edward’s borrowed cloak with 
shrewd speculation. 

“Are you all right?” Edward asked under his breath, 
too low for the human woman to hear. His voice was 
rough — if velvet can be rough — with anxiety. Still 
stressed by our situation, I imagined. 

“You’d better make her sit before she falls,” Alice said. 
“She’s going to pieces.” 

It was only then that I realize I was shaking, shaking 
hard, my entire frame vibrating until my teeth 
chattered and the room around me seemed to wobble 
and blur in my eyes. For one wild second, I wondered 
if this was how Jacob felt just before exploding into a 
werewolf. 

I heard a sound that didn’t make sense, a strange, 
ripping counterpart to the otherwise cheery 
background music. Distracted by the shaking, I 
couldn’t tell where it was coming from. 



504 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Shh, Bella, shh,” Edward said as he pulled me to the 
sofa farthest away from the curious human at the 
desk. 

“I think she’s having hysterics. Maybe you should 
slap her,” Alice suggested. 

Edward threw a frantic glance at her. 

Then I understood. Oh. The noise was me. The 
ripping sound was the sobs coming from my chest. 
That’s what was shaking me. 

“It’s all right, you’re safe, it’s all right,” he chanted 
again and again. He pulled me onto his lap and 
tucked the thick wool cloak around me, protecting me 
from his cold skin. 

I knew it was stupid to react like this. Who knew how 
much time I had to look at his face? He was saved, 
and I was saved, and he could leave me as soon as we 
were free. To have my eyes so filled with tears that I 
could not see his features clearly was wasteful — 
insanity. 

But, behind my eyes where the tears could not wash 
the image away, I could still see the panicked face of 
the tiny woman with the rosary. 

“All those people,” I sobbed. 

“I know,” he whispered. 

“It’s so horrible.” 

“Yes, it is. I wish you hadn’t had to see that.” 



505 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I rested my head against his cold chest, using the 
thick cloak to wipe my eyes. I took a few deep 
breaths, trying to calm myself. 

“Is there anything I can get you?” a voice asked 
politely. It was Gianna, leaning over Edward’s 
shoulder with a look that was both concerned and yet 
still professional and detached at the same time. It 
didn’t seem to bother her that her face was inches 
from a hostile vampire. She was either totally 
oblivious, or very good at her job. 

“No,” Edward answered coldly. 

She nodded, smiled at me, and then disappeared. 

I waited until she was out of hearing range. “Does she 
know what’s going on here?” I demanded, my voice 
low and hoarse. I was getting control of myself, my 
breathing evening out. 

“Yes. She knows everything,” Edward told me. 

“Does she know they’re going to kill her someday?” 
“She’s knows it’s a possibility,” he said. 

That surprised me. 

Edward’s face was hard to read. “She’s hoping they’ll 
decide to keep her.” 

I felt the blood leave my face. “She wants to be one of 
them?” 

He nodded once, his eyes sharp on my face, watching 
my reaction. 



506 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I shuddered. “How can she want that?” I whispered, 
more to myself than really looking for an answer. 
“How can she watch those people file through to that 
hideous room and want to be a part of that?” 

Edward didn’t answer. His expression twisted in 
response to something I’d said. 

As I stared at his too beautiful face, trying to 
understand the change, it suddenly struck me that I 
was really here, in Edward’s arms, however fleetingly, 
and that we were not — at this exact moment — about 
to be killed. 

“Oh, Edward,” I cried, and I was sobbing again. It was 
such a stupid reaction. The tears were too thick for 
me to see his face again, and that was inexcusable. I 
only had until sunset for sure. Like a fairy tale again, 
with deadlines that ended the magic. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked, still anxious, rubbing my 
back with gentle pats. 

I wrapped my arms around his neck — what was the 
worst he could do? Just push me away — and hugged 
myself closer to him. “Is it really sick for me to be 
happy right now?” I asked. My voice broke twice. 

He didn’t push me away. He pulled me tight against 
his ice-hard chest, so tight it was hard to breathe, 
even with my lungs securely intact. “I know exactly 
what you mean,” he whispered. “But we have lots of 
reasons to be happy. For one, we’re alive.” 

“Yes,” I agreed. “That’s a good one.” 

“And together,” he breathed. His breath was so sweet 
it made my head swim. 



507 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I just nodded, sure that he did not place the same 
weight on that consideration as I did. 

“And, with any luck, well still be alive tomorrow.” 

“Hopefully,” I said uneasily. 

“The outlook is quite good,” Alice assured me. She’d 
been so quiet, I’d almost forgotten her presence. “I’ll 
see Jasper in less than twenty-four hours,” she added 
in a satisfied tone. 

Lucky Alice. She could trust her future. 

I couldn’t keep my eyes off of Edward’s face for long. I 
stared at him, wishing more than anything that the 
future would never happen. That this moment would 
last forever, or, if it couldn’t, that I would stop 
existing when it did. 

Edward stared right back at me, his dark eyes soft, 
and it was easy to pretend that he felt the same way. 
So that’s what I did. I pretended, to make the moment 
sweeter. 

His fingertips traced the circles under my eyes. “You 
look so tired.” 

“And you look thirsty,” I whispered back, studying the 
purple bruises under his black irises. 

He shrugged. “It’s nothing.” 

“Are you sure? I could sit with Alice,” I offered, 
unwilling; I’d rather he killed me now than move one 
inch from where I was. 



508 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t be ridiculous.” He sighed; his sweet breath 
caressed my face. “I’ve never been in better control of 
that side of my nature than right now.” 

I had a million questions for him. One of them 
bubbled to my lips now, but I held my tongue. I didn’t 
want to ruin the moment, as imperfect as it was, here 
in this room that made me sick, under the eyes of the 
would-be monster. 

Here in his arms, it was so easy to fantasize that he 
wanted me. I didn’t want to think about his 
motivations now — about whether he acted this way to 
keep me calm while we were still in danger, or if he 
just felt guilty for where we were and relieved that he 
wasn’t responsible for my death. Maybe the time 
apart had been enough that I didn’t bore him for the 
moment. But it didn’t matter. I was so much happier 
pretending. 

I lay quiet in his arms, re-memorizing his face, 
pretending.... 

He stared at my face like he was doing the same, 
while he and Alice discussed how to get home. Their 
voices were so quick and low that I knew Gianna 
couldn’t understand. I missed half of it myself. It 
sounded like more theft would be involved, though. I 
wondered idly if the yellow Porsche had made it back 
to its owner yet. 

“What was all that talk about singers?” Alice asked at 
one point. 

“La tua cantante,” Edward said. His voice made the 
words into music. 

“Yes, that,” Alice said, and I concentrated for a 
moment. I’d wondered about that, too, at the time. 

509 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt Edward shrug around me. “They have a name 
for someone who smells the way Bella does to me. 
They call her my singer — because her blood sings for 
me.” 

Alice laughed. 

I was tired enough to sleep, but I fought against the 
weariness. I wasn’t going to miss a second of the time 
I had with him. Now and then, as he talked with 
Alice, he would lean down suddenly and kiss me — his 
glass-smooth lips brushing against my hair, my 
forehead, the tip of my nose. Each time it was like an 
electric shock to my long dormant heart. The sound of 
its beating seemed to fill the entire room. 

It was heaven — right smack in the middle of hell. 

I lost track of the time completely. So when Edward’s 
arms tightened around me, and both he and Alice 
looked to the back of the room with wary eyes, I 
panicked. I cringed into Edward’s chest as Alec — his 
eyes now a vivid ruby, but still spotless in his light 
gray suit despite the afternoon meal — walked through 
the double doors. 

It was good news. 

“You’re free to leave now,” Alec told us, his tone so 
warm you’d think we were all lifelong friends. “We ask 
that you don’t linger in the city.” 

Edward made no answering pretence; his voice was 
ice cold. “That won’t be a problem.” 

Alec smiled, nodded, and disappeared again. 

“Follow the right hallway around the corner to the 
first set of elevators,” Gianna told us as Edward 

510 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




helped me to my feet. “The lobby is two floors down, 
and exits to the street. Goodbye, now,” she added 
pleasantly. I wondered if her competence would be 
enough to save her. 

Alice shot her a dark look. 

I was relieved there was another way out; I wasn’t 
sure if I could handle another tour through the 
underground. 

We left through a tastefully luxurious lobby. I was the 
only one who glanced back at the medieval castle that 
housed the elaborate business fapade. I couldn’t see 
the turret from here, for which I was grateful. 

The party was still in full swing in the streets. The 
street lamps were just coming on as we walked swiftly 
through the narrow, cobbled lanes. The sky was a 
dull, fading gray overhead, but the buildings crowded 
the streets so closely that it felt darker. 

The party was darker, too. Edward’s long, trailing 
cloak did not stand out in the way it might have on a 
normal evening in Volterra. There were others in 
black satin cloaks now, and the plastic fangs I’d seen 
on the child in the square today seemed to be very 
popular with the adults. 

“Ridiculous,” Edward muttered once. 

I didn’t notice when Alice disappeared from beside 
me. I looked over to ask her a question, and she was 
gone. 

“Where’s Alice?” I whispered in a panic. 

“She went to retrieve your bags from where she 
stashed them this morning.” 

511 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I’d forgotten that I had access to a toothbrush. It 
brightened my outlook considerably. 

“She’s stealing a car, too, isn’t she?” I guessed. 

He grinned. “Not till we’re outside.” 

It seemed like a very long way to the entryway. 

Edward could see that I was spent; he wound his arm 
around my waist and supported most of my weight as 
we walked. 

I shuddered as he pulled me through the dark stone 
archway. The huge, ancient portcullis above was like 
a cage door, threatening to drop on us, to lock us in. 

He led me toward a dark car, waiting in a pool of 
shadow to the right of the gate with the engine 
running. To my surprise, he slid into the backseat 
with me, instead of insisting on driving. 

Alice was apologetic. “I’m sorry.” She gestured vaguely 
toward the dashboard. “There wasn’t much to choose 
from.” 

“It’s fine, Alice.” He grinned. “They can’t all be 91 1 
Turbos.” 

She sighed. “I may have to acquire one of those 
legally. It was fabulous.” 

“I’ll get you one for Christmas,” Edward promised. 

Alice turned to beam at him, which worried me, as 
she was already speeding down the dark and curvy 
hillside at the same time. 

“Yellow,” she told him. 



512 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward kept me tight in his arms. Inside the gray 
cloak, I was warm and comfortable. More than 
comfortable. 

“You can sleep now, Bella,” he murmured. “It’s over.” 

I knew he meant the danger, the nightmare in the 
ancient city, but I still had to swallow hard before I 
could answer. 

“I don’t want to sleep. I’m not tired.” Just the second 
part was a lie. I wasn’t about to close my eyes. The 
car was only dimly lit by the dashboard controls, but 
it was enough that I could see his face. 

He pressed his lips to the hollow under my ear. “Try,” 
he encouraged. 

I shook my head. 

He sighed. “You’re still just as stubborn.” 

I was stubborn; I fought with my heavy lids, and I 
won. The dark road was the hardest part; the bright 
lights at the airport in Florence made it easier, as did 
the chance to brush my teeth and change into clean 
clothes; Alice bought Edward new clothes, too, and he 
left the dark cloak on a pile of trash in an alley. The 
plane trip to Rome was so short that there wasn’t 
really a chance for the fatigue to drag me under. I 
knew the flight from Rome to Atlanta would be 
another matter entirely, so I asked the flight 
attendant if she could bring me a Coke. 

“Bella,” Edward said disapprovingly. He knew my low 
tolerance for caffeine. 

Alice was behind us. I could hear her murmuring to 
Jasper on the phone. 

513 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t want to sleep,” I reminded him. I gave him an 
excuse that was believable because it was true. “If I 
close my eyes now, I’ll see things I don’t want to see. 
I’ll have nightmares.” 

He didn’t argue with me after that. 

It would have been a very good time to talk, to get the 
answers I needed — needed but not really wanted; I 
was already despairing at the thought of what I might 
hear. We had an uninterrupted block of time ahead of 
us, and he couldn’t escape me on an airplane — well, 
not easily, at least. No one would hear us except 
Alice; it was late, and most of the passengers were 
turning off lights and asking for pillows in muted 
voices. Talk would help me fight off the exhaustion. 

But, perversely, I bit my tongue against the flood of 
questions. My reasoning was probably flawed by 
exhaustion, but I hoped that by postponing the 
discussion, I could buy a few more hours with him at 
some later time — spin this out for another night, 
Scheherazade-style. 

So I kept drinking soda, and resisting even the urge 
to blink. Edward seemed perfectly content to hold me 
in his arms, his fingers tracing my face again and 
again. I touched his face, too. I couldn’t stop myself, 
though I was afraid it would hurt me later, when I 
was alone again. He continued to kiss my hair, my 
forehead, my wrists... but never my lips, and that was 
good. After all, how many ways can one heart be 
mangled and still be expected to keep beating? I’d 
lived through a lot that should have finished me in 
the last few days, but it didn’t make me feel strong. 
Instead, I felt horribly fragile, like one word could 
shatter me. 



514 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward didn’t speak. Maybe he was hoping I would 
sleep. Maybe he had nothing to say. 

I won the fight against my heavy lids. I was awake 
when we reached the airport in Atlanta, and I even 
watched the sun beginning to rise over Seattle’s cloud 
cover before Edward slid the window shut. I was 
proud of myself. I hadn’t missed one minute. 

Neither Alice nor Edward was surprised by the 
reception that waited for us at Sea-Tac airport, but it 
caught me off guard. Jasper was the first one I saw — 
he didn’t seem to see me at all. His eyes were only for 
Alice. She went quickly to his side; they didn’t 
embrace like other couples meeting there. They only 
stared into each other’s faces, yet, somehow, the 
moment was so private that I still felt the need to look 
away. 

Carlisle and Esme waited in a quiet corner far from 
the line for the metal detectors, in the shadow of a 
wide pillar. Esme reached for me, hugging me fiercely, 
yet awkwardly, because Edward kept his arms 
around me, too. 

“Thank you so much,” she said in my ear. 

Then she threw her arms around Edward, and she 
looked like she would be crying if that were possible. 

“You will never put me through that again,” she 
nearly growled. 

Edward grinned, repentant. “Sorry, Mom.” 

“Thank you, Bella,” Carlisle said. “We owe you.” 



515 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hardly,” I mumbled. The sleepless night was 
suddenly overpowering. My head felt disconnected 
from my body. 

“She’s dead on her feet,” Esme scolded Edward. “Let’s 
get her home.” 

Not sure if home was what I wanted at this point, I 
stumbled, half-blind, through the airport, Edward 
dragging me on one side and Esme on the other. I 
didn’t know if Alice and Jasper were behind us or not, 
and I was too exhausted to look. 

I think I was mostly asleep, though I was still 
walking, when we reached their car. The surprise of 
seeing Emmett and Rosalie leaning against the black 
sedan under the dim lights of the parking garage 
revived me some. Edward stiffened. 

“Don’t,” Esme whispered. “She feels awful.” 

“She should,” Edward said, making no attempt to 
keep his voice down. 

“It’s not her fault,” I said, my words garbled with 
exhaustion. 

“Let her make amends,” Esme pleaded. “We’ll ride 
with Alice and Jasper.” 

Edward glowered at the absurdly lovely blond vampire 
waiting for us. 

“Please, Edward,” I said. I didn’t want to ride with 
Rosalie any more than he seemed to, but I’d caused 
more than enough discord in his family. 

He sighed, and towed me toward the car. 



516 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett and Rosalie got in the front seat without 
speaking, while Edward pulled me in the back again. I 
knew I wasn’t going to be able to fight my eyelids 
anymore, and I laid my head against his chest in 
defeat, letting them close. I felt the car purr to life. 

“Edward,” Rosalie began. 

“I know.” Edward’s brusque tone was not generous. 
“Bella?” Rosalie asked softly. 

My eyelids fluttered open in shock. It was the first 
time she’d ever spoken directly to me. 

“Yes, Rosalie?” I asked, hesitant. 

“I’m so very sorry, Bella. I feel wretched about every 
part of this, and so grateful that you were brave 
enough to go save my brother after what I did. Please 
say you’ll forgive me.” 

The words were awkward, stilted because of her 
embarrassment, but they seemed sincere. 

“Of course, Rosalie,” I mumbled, grasping at any 
chance to make her hate me a little less. “It’s not your 
fault at all. I’m the one who jumped off the damn cliff. 
Of course I forgive you.” 

The words came out like mush. 

“It doesn’t count until she’s conscious, Rose,” Emmett 
chuckled. 

“I’m conscious,” I said; it just sounded like a garbled 
sigh. 



517 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Let her sleep,” Edward insisted, but his voice was a 
little warmer. 

It was quiet then, except for the gentle thrum of the 
engine. I must have fallen asleep, because it seemed 
like seconds later when the door opened and Edward 
was carrying me from the car. My eyes wouldn’t open. 
At first I thought we were still at the airport. 

And then I heard Charlie. 

“Bella!” he shouted from some distance. 

“Charlie,” I mumbled, trying to shake off the stupor. 

“Shh,” Edward whispered. “It’s okay; you’re home and 
safe. Just sleep.” 

“I can’t believe you have the nerve to show your face 
here.” Charlie bellowed at Edward, his voice much 
closer now. 

“Stop it, Dad,” I groaned. He didn’t hear me. 

“What’s wrong with her?” Charlie demanded. 

“She’s just very tired, Charlie,” Edward assured him 
quietly. “Please let her rest.” 

“Don’t tell me what to do!” Charlie yelled. “Give her to 
me. Get your hands off her!” 

Edward tried to pass me to Charlie, but I clung to him 
with locked, tenacious fingers. I could feel my dad 
yanking on my arm. 

“Cut it out, Dad,” I said with more volume. I managed 
to drag my lids back to stare at Charlie with bleary 
eyes. “Be mad at me.” 

518 I P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




We were in front of my house. The front door was 
standing open. The cloud cover overhead was too 
thick to guess at a time of day. 

“You bet I will be,” Charlie promised. “Get inside.” 

“’Kay. Let me down,” I sighed. 

Edward set me on my feet. I could see that I was 
upright, but I couldn’t feel my legs. I trudged forward 
anyway, until the sidewalk swirled up toward my face. 
Edward’s arms caught me before I hit the concrete. 

“Just let me get her upstairs,” Edward said. “Then I’ll 
leave.” 

“No,” I cried, panicking. I hadn’t got my answers yet. 
He had to stay for at least that much, didn’t he? 

“I won’t be far,” Edward promised, whispering so low 
in my ear that Charlie didn’t have a hope of hearing. 

I didn’t hear Charlie answer, but Edward headed into 
the house. My open eyes only made it till the stairs. 
The last thing I felt was Edward’s cool hands prying 
my fingers loose from his shirt. 



519 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





THE TRUTH 



I had the sense that I'd been asleep for a very long 
time — my body was stiff, like I hadn’t moved once 
through all that time, either. My mind was dazed and 
slow; strange, colorful dreams — dreams and 
nightmares — swirled dizzily around the inside of my 
head. They were so vivid. The horrible and the 
heavenly, all mixed together into a bizarre jumble. 
There was sharp impatience and fear, both part of 
that frustrating dream where your feet can’t move fast 
enough.... And there were plenty of monsters, red-eyed 
fiends that were all the more ghastly for their genteel 
civility. The dream was still strong — I could even 
remember the names. But the strongest, clearest part 
of the dream was not the horror. It was the angel that 
was most clear. 

It was hard to let him go and wake up. This dream 
did not want to be shoved away into the vault of 
dreams I refused to revisit. I struggled with it as my 
mind became more alert, focusing on reality. I 
couldn’t remember what day of the week it was, but I 
was sure Jacob or school or work or something was 
waiting for me. I inhaled deeply, wondering how to 
face another day. 

Something cold touched my forehead with the softest 
pressure. 

I squeezed my eyes more tightly shut. I was still 
dreaming, it seemed, and it felt abnormally real. I was 
so close to waking... any second now, and it would be 
gone. 



520 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



But I realized that it felt too real, too real to be good 
for me. The stone arms I imagined wrapped around 
me were far too substantial. If I let this go any 
further, I’d be sorry for it later. With a resigned sigh, I 
wrenched back my eyelids to dispel the illusion. 

“Oh!” I gasped, and threw my fists over my eyes. 

Well, clearly, I’d gone too far; it must have been a 
mistake to let my imagination get so out of hand. 
Okay, so “let” was the wrong word. I’d forced it to get 
out of hand — pretty much stalked my 
hallucinations — and now my mind had snapped. 

It took less than half a second for me to realize that, 
as long as I was truly insane now, I might as well 
enjoy the delusions while they were pleasant. 

I opened my eyes again — and Edward was still there, 
his perfect face just inches away from mine. 

“Did I frighten you?” His low voice was anxious. 

This was very good, as delusions went. The face, the 
voice, the scent, everything — it was so much better 
than drowning. The beautiful figment of my 
imagination watched my changing expressions with 
alarm. His irises were pitch-black, with bruise-like 
shadows under them. This surprised me; my 
hallucinatory Edwards were usually better fed. 

I blinked twice, desperately trying to remember the 
last thing that I was sure was real. Alice was part of 
my dream, and I wondered if she had really come 
back at all, or if that was just the preamble. I thought 
she’d returned the day I’d nearly drowned.... 

“Oh, crap,” I croaked. My throat was thick with 
sleeping. 

521 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What’s wrong, Bella?” 



I frowned at him unhappily. His face was even more 
anxious than before. 

“I’m dead, right?” I moaned. “I did drown. Crap, crap, 
crap! This is gonna kill Charlie.” 

Edward frowned, too. “You’re not dead.” 

“Then why am I not waking up?” I challenged, raising 
my eyebrows. 

“You are awake, Bella.” 

I shook my head. “Sure, sure. That’s what you want 
me to think. And then it will be worse when I do wake 
up. If I wake up, which I won’t, because I’m dead. 

This is awful. Poor Charlie. And Renee and Jake ...” I 
trailed off in horror at what I had done. 

“I can see where you might confuse me with a 
nightmare.” His short-lived smile was grim. “But I 
can’t imagine what you could have done to wind up in 
hell. Did you commit many murders while I was 
away?” 

I grimaced. “Obviously not. If I was in hell, you 
wouldn’t be with me.” 

He sighed. 

My head was getting clearer. My eyes flickered away 
from his face — unwillingly — for one second, to the 
dark, open window, and then back to him. I started to 
remember details... and I felt a faint, unfamiliar blush 
warm the skin over my cheekbones as I slowly 
realized that Edward was really, truly here with me, 
and I was wasting time being an idiot. 

522 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Did all of that really happen, then?” It was almost 
impossible to reassign my dream as reality. I couldn’t 
wrap my head around the concept. 

“That depends.” Edward’s smile was still hard. “If 
you’re referring to us nearly being massacred in Italy, 
then, yes.” 

“How strange,” I mused. “I really went to Italy. Did 
you know I’d never been farther east than 
Albuquerque?” 

He rolled his eyes. “Maybe you should go back to 
sleep. You’re not coherent.” 

“I’m not tired anymore.” It was all coming clear now. 
“What time is it? How long have I been sleeping?” 

“It’s just after one in the morning. So, about fourteen 
hours.” 

I stretched as he spoke. I was so stiff. 

“Charlie?” I asked. 

Edward frowned. “Sleeping. You should probably 
know that I’m breaking the rules right now. Well, not 
technically, since he said I was never to walk through 
his door again, and I came in the window.... But, still, 
the intent was clear.” 

“Charlie banned you from the house?” I asked, 
disbelief quickly melting into fury. 

His eyes were sad. “Did you expect anything else?” 

My eyes were mad. I was going to have a few words 
with my father — perhaps it would be a good time to 
remind him that I was over the legal age of adulthood. 

523 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




It didn’t matter so much, of course, except in 
principle. All too soon there would be no reason for 
the prohibition. I turned my thoughts to less painful 
avenues. 

“What’s the story?” I asked, genuinely curious, but 
also trying desperately to keep the conversation 
casual, to keep a firm grip on myself, so I wouldn’t 
scare him away with the frantic, gnawing craving that 
was raging inside me. 

“What do you mean?” 

“What am I telling Charlie? What’s my excuse for 
disappearing for... how long was I gone, anyway?” I 
tried to count the hours in my head. 

“Just three days.” His eyes tightened, but he smiled 
more naturally this time. “Actually, I was hoping you 
might have a good explanation. I’ve got nothing.” 

I groaned. “Fabulous.” 

“Well, maybe Alice will come up with something,” he 
offered, trying to comfort me. 

And I was comforted. Who cared what I had to deal 
with later? Every second that he was here — so close, 
his flawless face glowing in the dim light from the 
numbers on my alarm clock — was precious and not to 
be wasted. 

“So,” I began, picking the least important — though 
still vitally interesting — question to start with. I was 
safely delivered home, and he might decide to leave at 
any moment. I had to keep him talking. Besides, this 
temporary heaven wasn’t entirely complete without 
the sound of his voice. “What have you been doing, up 
until three days ago?” 

524 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




His face turned wary in an instant. “Nothing terribly 
exciting.” 

“Of course not,” I mumbled. 

“Why are you making that face?” 

“Well ...” I pursed my lips, considering. “If you were, 
after all, just a dream, that’s exactly the kind of thing 
you would say. My imagination must be used up.” 

He sighed. “If I tell you, will you finally believe that 
you’re not having a nightmare?” 

“Nightmare!” I repeated scornfully. He waited for my 
answer. “Maybe,” I said after a second of thought. “If 
you tell me.” 

“I was... hunting.” 

“Is that the best you can do?” I criticized. “That 
definitely doesn’t prove I’m awake.” 

He hesitated, and then spoke slowly, choosing his 
words with care. “I wasn’t hunting for food... I was 
actually trying my hand at... tracking. I’m not very 
good at it.” 

“What were you tracking?” I asked, intrigued. 

“Nothing of consequence.” His words didn’t match his 
expression; he looked upset, uncomfortable. 

“I don’t understand.” 

He hesitated; his face, shining with an odd green cast 
from the light of the clock, was torn. 



525 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I — ” He took a deep breath. “I owe you an apology. 

No, of course I owe you much, much more than that. 
But you have to know” — the words began to flow so 
fast, the way I remembered he spoke sometimes when 
he was agitated, that I really had to concentrate to 
catch them all — “that I had no idea. I didn’t realize the 
mess I was leaving behind. I thought it was safe for 
you here. So safe. I had no idea that Victoria” — his 
lips curled back when he said the name — “would 
come back. I’ll admit, when I saw her that one time, I 
was paying much more attention to James’s 
thoughts. But I just didn’t see that she had this kind 
of response in her. That she even had such a tie to 
him. I think I realize why now — she was so sure of 
him, the thought of him failing never occurred to her. 
It was her overconfidence that clouded her feelings 
about him — that kept me from seeing the depth of 
them, the bond there. 

“Not that there’s any excuse for what I left you to face. 
When I heard what you told Alice — what she saw 
herself — when I realized that you had to put your life 
in the hands of werewolves, immature, volatile, the 
worst thing out there besides Victoria herself’ — he 
shuddered and the gush of words halted for a short 
second. “Please know that I had no idea of any of this. 
I feel sick, sick to my core, even now, when I can see 
and feel you safe in my arms. I am the most miserable 
excuse for — ” 

“Stop,” I interrupted him. He stared at me with 
agonized eyes, and I tried to find the right words — the 
words that would free him from this imagined 
obligation that caused him so much pain. They were 
very hard words to say. I didn’t know if I could get 
them out without breaking down. But I had to try to 
do it right. I didn’t want to be a source of guilt and 
anguish in his life. He should be happy, no matter 
what it cost me. 

526 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I’d really been hoping to put off this part of our last 
conversation. It was going to bring things to an end so 
much sooner. 

Drawing on all my months of practice with trying to 
be normal for Charlie, I kept my face smooth. 

“Edward,” I said. His name burned my throat a little 
on the way out. I could feel the ghost of the hole, 
waiting to rip itself wide again as soon as he 
disappeared. I didn’t quite see how I was going to 
survive it this time. “This has to stop now. You can’t 
think about things that way. You can’t let this... this 
guilt... rule your life. You can’t take responsibility for 
the things that happen to me here. None of it is your 
fault, it’s just part of how life is for me. So, if I trip in 
front of a bus or whatever it is next time, you have to 
realize that it’s not your job to take the blame. You 
can’t just go running off to Italy because you feel bad 
that you didn’t save me. Even if I had jumped off that 
cliff to die, that would have been my choice, and not 
your fault. I know it’s your... your nature to shoulder 
the blame for everything, but you really can’t let that 
make you go to such extremes! It’s very 
irresponsible — think of Esme and Carlisle and — ” 

I was on the edge of losing it. I stopped to take a deep 
breath, hoping to calm myself. I had to set him free. I 
had to make sure this never happened again. 

“Isabella Marie Swan,” he whispered, the strangest 
expression crossing his face. He almost looked mad. 
“Do you believe that I asked the Volturi to kill me 
because I felt guilty?” 

I could feel the blank incomprehension on my face. 
“Didn’t you?” 



527 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Feel guilty? Intensely so. More than you can 
comprehend.” 

“Then... what are you saying? I don’t understand.” 

“Bella, I went to the Volturi because I thought you 
were dead,” he said, voice soft, eyes fierce. “Even if I’d 
had no hand in your death” — he shuddered as he 
whispered the last word — “even if it wasn’t my fault, I 
would have gone to Italy. Obviously, I should have 
been more careful — I should have spoken to Alice 
directly, rather than accepting it secondhand from 
Rosalie. But, really, what was I supposed to think 
when the boy said Charlie was at the funeral? What 
are the odds? 

“The odds...,” he muttered then, distracted. His voice 
was so low I wasn’t sure I heard it right. “The odds 
are always stacked against us. Mistake after mistake. 
I’ll never criticize Romeo again.” 

“But I still don’t understand,” I said. “That’s my whole 
point. So what?” 

“Excuse me?” 

“So what if I was dead?” 

He stared at me dubiously for a long moment before 
answering. “Don’t you remember anything I told you 
before?” 

“I remember everything that you told me.” Including 
the words that had negated all the rest. 

He brushed the tip of his cool finger against my lower 
lip. “Bella, you seem to be under a misapprehension.” 
He closed his eyes, shaking his head back and forth 
with half a smile on his beautiful face. It wasn’t a 

528 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




happy smile. “I thought I’d explained it clearly before. 
Bella, I can’t live in a world where you don’t exist.” 

“I am ...” My head swam as I looked for the 
appropriate word. “Confused.” That worked. I couldn’t 
make sense of what he was saying. 

He stared deep into my eyes with his sincere, earnest 
gaze. “I’m a good liar, Bella, I have to be.” 

I froze, my muscles locking down as if for impact. The 
fault line in my chest rippled; the pain of it took my 
breath away. 

He shook my shoulder, trying to loosen my rigid pose. 
“Let me finish! I’m a good liar, but still, for you to 
believe me so quickly.” He winced. “That 
was. . .excruciating.” 

I waited, still frozen. 

“When we were in the forest, when I was telling you 
goodbye — ” 

I didn’t allow myself to remember. I fought to keep 
myself in the present second only. 

“You weren’t going to let go,” he whispered. “I could 
see that. I didn’t want to do it — it felt like it would kill 
me to do it — but I knew that if I couldn’t convince you 
that I didn’t love you anymore, it would just take you 
that much longer to get on with your life. I hoped 
that, if you thought I’d moved on, so would you.” 

“A clean break,” I whispered through unmoving lips. 

“Exactly. But I never imagined it would be so easy to 
do! I thought it would be next to impossible — that you 
would be so sure of the truth that I would have to lie 

529 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




through my teeth for hours to even plant the seed of 
doubt in your head. I lied, and I’m so sorry — sorry 
because I hurt you, sorry because it was a worthless 
effort. Sorry that I couldn’t protect you from what I 
am. I lied to save you, and it didn’t work. I’m sorry. 

“But how could you believe me? After all the 
thousand times I’ve told you I love you, how could you 
let one word break your faith in me?” 

I didn’t answer. I was too shocked to form a rational 
response. 

“I could see it in your eyes, that you honestly believed 
that I didn’t want you anymore. The most absurd, 
ridiculous concept — as if there were any way that I 
could exist without needing you!” 

I was still frozen. His words were incomprehensible, 
because they were impossible. 

He shook my shoulder again, not hard, but enough 
that my teeth rattled a little. 

“Bella,” he sighed. “Really, what were you thinking!” 

And so I started to cry. The tears welled up and then 
gushed miserably down my cheeks. 

“I knew it,” I sobbed. “I knew I was dreaming.” 

“You’re impossible,” he said, and he laughed once — a 
hard laugh, frustrated. “How can I put this so that 
you’ll believe me? You’re not asleep, and you’re not 
dead. I’m here, and I love you. I have always loved 
you, and I will always love you. I was thinking of you, 
seeing your face in my mind, every second that I was 
away. When I told you that I didn’t want you, it was 
the very blackest kind of blasphemy.” 

530 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I shook my head while the tears continued to ooze 
from the corners of my eyes. 



“You don’t believe me, do you?” he whispered, his face 
paler than his usual pale — I could see that even in the 
dim light. “Why can you believe the lie, but not the 
truth?” 

“It never made sense for you to love me,” I explained, 
my voice breaking twice. “I always knew that.” 

His eyes narrowed, his jaw tightened. 

“I’ll prove you’re awake,” he promised. 

He caught my face securely between his iron 
hands, ignoring my struggles when I tried to turn my 
head away. 

“Please don’t,” I whispered. 

He stopped, his lips just half an inch from mine. 

“Why not?” he demanded. His breath blew into my 
face, making my head whirl. 

“When I wake up” — He opened his mouth to protest, 
so I revised — “okay, forget that one — when you leave 
again, it’s going to be hard enough without this, too.” 

He pulled back an inch, to stare at my face. 

“Yesterday, when I would touch you, you were 
so... hesitant, so careful, and yet still the same. I need 
to know why. Is it because I’m too late? Because I’ve 
hurt you too much? Because you have moved on, as I 
meant for you to? That would be... quite fair. I won’t 
contest your decision. So don’t try to spare my 
feelings, please — just tell me now whether or not you 
531 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




can still love me, after everything I’ve done to you. 

Can you?” he whispered. 

“What kind of an idiotic question is that?” 

“Just answer it. Please.” 

I stared at him darkly for a long moment. “The way I 
feel about you will never change. Of course I love 
you — and there’s nothing you can do about it!” 

“That’s all I needed to hear.” 

His mouth was on mine then, and I couldn’t fight 
him. Not because he was so many thousand times 
stronger than me, but because my will crumbled into 
dust the second our lips met. This kiss was not quite 
as careful as others I remembered, which suited me 
just fine. If I was going to rip myself up further, I 
might as well get as much in trade as possible. 

So I kissed him back, my heart pounding out a 
jagged, disjointed rhythm while my breathing turned 
to panting and my fingers moved greedily to his face. I 
could feel his marble body against every line of mine, 
and I was so glad he hadn’t listened to me — there was 
no pain in the world that would have justified missing 
this. His hands memorized my face, the same way 
mine were tracing his, and, in the brief seconds when 
his lips were free, he whispered my name. 

When I was starting to get dizzy, he pulled away, only 
to lay his ear against my heart. 

I lay there, dazed, waiting for my gasping to slow and 
quiet. 

“By the way,” he said in a casual tone. “I’m not 
leaving you.” 

532 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t say anything, and he seemed to hear 
skepticism in my silence. 

He lifted his face to lock my gaze in his. “I’m not going 
anywhere. Not without you,” he added more seriously. 
“I only left you in the first place because I wanted you 
to have a chance at a normal, happy, human life. I 
could see what I was doing to you — keeping you 
constantly on the edge of danger, taking you away 
from the world you belonged in, risking your life every 
moment I was with you. So I had to try. I had to do 
something, and it seemed like leaving was the only 
way. If I hadn’t thought you would be better off, I 
could have never made myself leave. I’m much too 
selfish. Only you could be more important than what 
I wanted... what I needed. What I want and need is to 
be with you, and I know I’ll never be strong enough to 
leave again. I have too many excuses to stay — thank 
heaven for that! It seems you can’t be safe, no matter 
how many miles I put between us.” 

“Don’t promise me anything,” I whispered. If I let 
myself hope, and it came to nothing... that would kill 
me. Where all those merciless vampires had not been 
able to finish me off, hope would do the job. 

Anger glinted metallic in his black eyes. “You think 
I’m lying to you now?” 

“No — not lying.” I shook my head, trying to think it 
through coherently. To examine the hypothesis that 
he did love me, while staying objective, clinical, so I 
wouldn’t fall into the trap of hoping. “You could mean 
it... now. But what about tomorrow, when you think 
about all the reasons you left in the first place? Or 
next month, when Jasper takes a snap at me?” 

He flinched. 



533 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I thought back over those last days of my life before 
he left me, tried to see them through the filter of what 
he was telling me now. From that perspective, 
imagining that he’d left me while loving me, left me for 
me, his brooding and cold silences took on a different 
meaning. “It isn’t as if you hadn’t thought the first 
decision through, is it?” I guessed. “You’ll end up 
doing what you think is right.” 

“I’m not as strong as you give me credit for,” he said. 
“Right and wrong have ceased to mean much to me; I 
was coming back anyway. Before Rosalie told me the 
news, I was already past trying to live through one 
week at a time, or even one day. I was fighting to 
make it through a single hour. It was only a matter of 
time — and not much of it — before I showed up at your 
window and begged you to take me back. I’d be happy 
to beg now, if you’d like that.” 

I grimaced. “Be serious, please.” 

“Oh, I am,” he insisted, glaring now. “Will you please 
try to hear what I’m telling you? Will you let me 
attempt to explain what you mean to me?” 

He waited, studying my face as he spoke to make sure 
I was really listening. 

“Before you, Bella, my life was like a moonless night. 
Very dark, but there were stars — points of light and 
reason.... And then you shot across my sky like a 
meteor. Suddenly everything was on fire; there was 
brilliancy, there was beauty. When you were gone, 
when the meteor had fallen over the horizon, 
everything went black. Nothing had changed, but my 
eyes were blinded by the light. I couldn’t see the stars 
anymore. And there was no more reason for 
anything.” 



534 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I wanted to believe him. But this was my life without 
him that he was describing, not the other way 
around. 

“Your eyes will adjust,” I mumbled. 

“That’s just the problem — they can’t.” 

“What about your distractions?” 

He laughed without a trace of humor. “Just part of 
the lie, love. There was no distraction from the... the 
agony. My heart hasn’t beat in almost ninety years, 
but this was different. It was like my heart was 
gone — like I was hollow. Like I’d left everything that 
was inside me here with you.” 

“That’s funny,” I muttered. 

He arched one perfect eyebrow. “Funny?” 

“I meant strange — I thought it was just me. Lots of 
pieces of me went missing, too. I haven’t been able to 
really breathe in so long.” I filled my lungs, 
luxuriating in the sensation. “And my heart. That was 
definitely lost.” 

He closed his eyes and laid his ear over my heart 
again. I let my cheek press against his hair, felt the 
texture of it on my skin, smelled the delicious scent of 
him. 

“Tracking wasn’t a distraction then?” I asked, 
curious, and also needing to distract myself. I was 
very much in danger of hoping. I wouldn’t be able to 
stop myself for long. My heart throbbed, singing in my 
chest. 



535 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“No.” He sighed. “That was never a distraction. It was 
an obligation.” 



“What does that mean?” 

“It means that, even though I never expected any 
danger from Victoria, I wasn’t going to let her get 
away with... Well, like I said, I was horrible at it. I 
traced her as far as Texas, but then I followed a false 
lead down to Brazil — and really she came here.” He 
groaned. “I wasn’t even on the right continent! And all 
the while, worse than my worst fears — ” 

“You were hunting Victoria?” I half-shrieked as soon 
as I could find my voice, shooting through two 
octaves. 

Charlie’s distant snores stuttered, and then picked up 
a regular rhythm again. 

“Not well,” Edward answered, studying my outraged 
expression with a confused look. “But I’ll do better 
this time. She won’t be tainting perfectly good air by 
breathing in and out for much longer.” 

“That is... out of the question,” I managed to choke 
out. Insanity. Even if he had Emmett or Jasper help 
him. Even if he had Emmett and Jasper help. It was 
worse than my other imaginings: Jacob Black 
standing across a small space from Victoria’s vicious 
and feline figure. I couldn’t bear to picture Edward 
there, even though he was so much more durable 
than my half- human best friend. 

“It’s too late for her. I might have let the other time 
slide, but not now, not after — ” 

I interrupted him again, trying to sound calm. “Didn’t 
you just promise that you weren’t going to leave?” I 

536 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




asked, fighting the words as I said them, not letting 
them plant themselves in my heart. “That isn’t exactly 
compatible with an extended tracking expedition, is 



it?” 



He frowned. A snarl began to build low in his chest. “I 
will keep my promise, Bella. But Victoria” — the snarl 
became more pronounced — “is going to die. Soon.” 

“Let’s not be hasty,” I said, trying to hide my panic. 
“Maybe she’s not coming back. Jake’s pack probably 
scared her off. There’s really no reason to go looking 
for her. Besides, I’ve got bigger problems than 
Victoria.” 

Edward’s eyes narrowed, but he nodded. “It’s true. 

The werewolves are a problem.” 

I snorted. “I wasn’t talking about Jacob. My problems 
are a lot worse that a handful of adolescent wolves 
getting themselves into trouble.” 

Edward looked as if he were about to say something, 
and then thought better of it. His teeth clicked 
together, and he spoke through them. “Really?” he 
asked. “Then what would be your greatest problem? 
That would make Victoria’s returning for you seem 
like such an inconsequential matter in comparison?” 

“How about the second greatest?” I hedged. 

“All right,” he agreed, suspicious. 

I paused. I wasn’t sure I could say the name. “There 
are others who are coming to look for me,” I reminded 
him in a subdued whisper. 

He sighed, but the reaction was not as strong as I 
would have imagined after his response to Victoria. 

537 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“The Volturi are only the second greatest?” 

“You don’t seem that upset about it,” I noted. 

“Well, we have plenty of time to think it through. Time 
means something very different to them than it does 
to you, or even me. They count years the way you 
count days. I wouldn’t be surprised if you were thirty 
before you crossed their minds again,” he added 
lightly. 

Horror washed through me. 

Thirty. 

So his promises meant nothing, in the end. If I were 
going to turn thirty someday, then he couldn’t be 
planning on staying long. The harsh pain of this 
knowledge made me realize that I’d already begun to 
hope, without giving myself permission to do so. 

“You don’t have to be afraid,” he said, anxious as he 
watched the tears dew up again on the rims of my 
eyes. “I won’t let them hurt you.” 

“While you’re here.” Not that I cared what happened 
to me when he left. 

He took my face between his two stone hands, 
holding it tightly while his midnight eyes glared into 
mine with the gravitational force of a black hole. “I 
will never leave you again.” 

“But you said thirty,” I whispered. The tears leaked 
over the edge. “What? You’re going to stay, but let me 
get all old anyway? Right.” 

His eyes softened, while his mouth went hard. “That’s 
exactly what I’m going to do. What choice have I? I 

538 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




cannot be without you, but I will not destroy your 
soul.” 



“Is this really . . I tried to keep my voice even, but 
this question was too hard. I remembered his face 
when Aro had almost begged him to consider making 
me immortal. The sick look there. Was this fixation 
with keeping me human really about my soul, or was 
it because he wasn’t sure that he wanted me around 
that long? 

“Yes?” he asked, waiting for my question. 

I asked a different one. Almost — but not quite — as 
hard. 

“But what about when I get so old that people think 
I’m your mother? Your grandmother?” My voice was 
pale with revulsion — I could see Gran’s face again in 
the dream mirror. 

His whole face was soft now. He brushed the tears 
from my cheek with his lips. “That doesn’t mean 
anything to me,” he breathed against my skin. “You 
will always be the most beautiful thing in my world. 
Of course ...” He hesitated, flinching slightly, you 
outgrew me — if you wanted something more — I would 
understand that, Bella. I promise I wouldn’t stand in 
your way if you wanted to leave me.” 

His eyes were liquid onyx and utterly sincere. He 
spoke as if he’d put endless amounts of thought into 
this asinine plan. 

“You do realize that I’ll die eventually, right?” I 
demanded. 

He’d thought about this part, too. “I’ll follow after as 
soon as I can.” 

539 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That is seriously . . I looked for the right word. 
“Sick.” 

“Bella, it’s the only right way left — ” 

“Let’s just back up for a minute,” I said; feeling angry 
made it so much easier to be clear, decisive. “You do 
remember the Volturi, right? I can’t stay human 
forever. They’ll kill me. Even if they don’t think of me 
till I’m thirty” — I hissed the word — “do you really think 
they’ll forget?” 

“No,” he answered slowly, shaking his head. “They 
won’t forget. But ...” 

“But?” 

He grinned while I stared at him warily. Maybe I 
wasn’t the only crazy one. 

“I have a few plans.” 

“And these plans,” I said, my voice getting more acidic 
with each word. “These plans all center around me 
staying human.” 

My attitude hardened his expression. “Naturally.” His 
tone was brusque, his divine face arrogant. 

We glowered at each other for a long minute. 

Then I took a deep breath, squared my shoulders, I 
pushed his arms away so that I could sit up. 

“Do you want me to leave?” he asked, and it made my 
heart flutter to see that this idea hurt him, though he 
tried not to show it. 

“No,” I told him. “I’m leaving.” 

540 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He watched me suspiciously as I climbed out of the 
bed and fumbled around in the dark room, looking for 
my shoes. 



“May I ask where you are going?” he asked. 

“I’m going to your house,” I told him, still feeling 
around blindly. 

He got up and came to my side. “Here are your shoes. 
How did you plan to get there?” 

“My truck.” 

“That will probably wake Charlie,” he offered as a 
deterrent. 

I sighed. “I know. But honestly, I’ll be grounded for 
weeks as it is. How much more trouble can I really get 
in?” 



“None. He’ll blame me, not you.” 

“If you have a better idea, I’m all ears.” 

“Stay here,” he suggested, but his expression wasn’t 
hopeful. 

“No dice. But you go ahead and make yourself at 
home,” I encouraged, surprised at how natural my 
teasing sounded, and headed for the door. 

He was there before me, blocking my way. 

I frowned, and turned for the window. It wasn’t really 
that far to the ground, and it was mostly grass 
beneath.... 

“Okay,” he sighed. “I’ll give you a ride.” 

541 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I shrugged. “Either way. But you probably should be 
there, too.” 

“And why is that?” 

“Because you’re extraordinarily opinionated, and I’m 
sure you’ll want a chance to air your views.” 

“My views on which subject?” He asked through his 
teeth. 

“This isn’t just about you anymore. You’re not the 
center of the universe, you know.” My own personal 
universe was, of course, a different story. “If you’re 
going to bring the Volturi down on us over something 
as stupid as leaving me human, then your family 
ought to have a say.” 

“A say in what?” he asked, each word distinct. 

“My mortality. I’m putting it to a vote.” 



542 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




VOTE 



Vf 



He was not pleased, that much was easy to read in 
his face. But, without further argument, he took me 
in his arms and sprang lithely from my window, 
landing without the slightest jolt, like a cat. It was a 
little bit farther down than I’d imagined. 

“All right then,” he said, his voice seething with 
disapproval. “Up you go.” 

He helped me onto his back, and took off running. 
Even after all this time, it felt routine. Easy. Evidently 
this was something you never forgot, like riding a 
bicycle. 

It was so very quiet and dark as he ran through the 
forest, his breathing slow and even — dark enough 
that the trees flying past us were nearly invisible, and 
only the rush of air in my face truly gave away our 
speed. The air was damp; it didn’t burn my eyes the 
way the wind in the big plaza had, and that was 
comforting. As was the night, too, after that terrifying 
brightness. Like the thick quilt I’d played under as a 
child, the dark felt familiar and protecting. 

I remembered that running through the forest like 
this used to frighten me, that I used to have to close 
my eyes. It seemed a silly reaction to me now. I kept 
my eyes wide, my chin resting on his shoulder, my 
cheek against his neck. The speed was exhilarating. A 
hundred times better than the motorcycle. 

I turned my face toward him and pressed my lips into 
the cold stone skin of his neck. 



543 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



“Thank you,” he said, as the vague, black shapes of 
trees raced past us. “Does that mean you’ve decided 
you’re awake?” 

I laughed. The sound was easy, natural, effortless. It 
sounded right. “Not really. More that, either way, I’m 
not trying to wake up. Not tonight.” 

“I’ll earn your trust back somehow,” he murmured, 
mostly to himself. “If it’s my final act.” 

“I trust you,” I assured him. “It’s me I don’t trust.” 

“Explain that, please.” 

He’d slowed to a walk — I could only tell because the 
wind ceased — and I guessed that we weren’t far from 
the house. In fact, I thought I could make out the 
sound of the river rushing somewhere close by in the 
darkness. 

“Well — ” I struggled to find the right way to phrase it. 
“I don’t trust myself to be... enough. To deserve you. 
There’s nothing about me that could hold you.” 

He stopped and reached around to pull me from his 
back. His gentle hands did not release me; after he’d 
set me on my feet again, he wrapped his arms tightly 
around me, hugging me to his chest. 

“Your hold is permanent and unbreakable,” he 
whispered. “Never doubt that.” 

But how could I not? 

“You never did tell me...,” he murmured. 

“What?” 



544 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What your greatest problem is.” 

“I’ll give you one guess.” I sighed, and reached up to 
touch the tip of his nose with my index finger. 

He nodded. “I’m worse than the Volturi,” he said 
grimly. “I guess I’ve earned that.” 

I rolled my eyes. “The worst the Volturi can do is kill 
me.” 

He waited with tense eyes. 

“You can leave me,” I explained. “The Volturi, 
Victoria... they’re nothing compared to that.” 

Even in the darkness, I could see the anguish twist 
his face — it reminded me of his expression under 
Jane’s torturing gaze; I felt sick, and regretted 
speaking the truth. 

“Don’t,” I whispered, touching his face. “Don’t be 
sad.” 

He pulled one corner of his mouth up halfheartedly, 
but the expression didn’t touch his eyes. “If there was 
only some way to make you see that I can’t leave 
you,” he whispered. “Time, I suppose, will be the way 
to convince you.” 

I liked the idea of time. “Okay,” I agreed. 

His face was still tormented. I tried to distract him 
with inconsequentials. 

“So — since you’re staying. Can I have my stuff back?” 
I asked, making my tone as light as I could manage. 



545 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My attempt worked, to an extent: he laughed. But his 
eyes retained the misery. “Your things were never 
gone,” he told me. “I knew it was wrong, since I 
promised you peace without reminders. It was stupid 
and childish, but I wanted to leave something of 
myself with you. The CD, the pictures, the tickets — 
they’re all under your floorboards.” 

“Really?” 

He nodded, seeming slightly cheered by my obvious 
pleasure in this trivial fact. It wasn’t enough to heal 
the pain in his face completely. 

“I think,” I said slowly, “I’m not sure, but I wonder... I 
think maybe I knew it the whole time.” 

“What did you know?” 

I only wanted to take away the agony in his eyes, but 
as I spoke the words, they sounded truer than I 
expected they would. 

“Some part of me, my subconscious maybe, never 
stopped believing that you still cared whether I lived 
or died. That’s probably why I was hearing the 
voices.” 

There was a very deep silence for a moment. “Voices?” 
he asked flatly. 

“Well, just one voice. Yours. It’s a long story.” The 
wary look on his face made me wish that I hadn’t 
brought that up. Would he think I was crazy, like 
everyone else? Was everyone else right about that? 

But at least that expression — the one that made him 
look like something was burning him — faded. 

“I’ve got time.” His voice was unnaturally even. 

546 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s pretty pathetic.” 

He waited. 

I wasn’t sure how to explain. “Do you remember what 
Alice said about extreme sports?” 

He spoke the words without inflection or emphasis. 
“You jumped off a cliff for fun.” 

“Er, right. And before that, with the motorcycle — ” 

“Motorcycle?” he asked. I knew his voice well enough 
to hear something brewing behind the calm. 

“I guess I didn’t tell Alice about that part.” 

“No.” 

“Well, about that... See, I found that... when I was 
doing something dangerous or stupid... I could 
remember you more clearly,” I confessed, feeling 
completely mental. “I could remember how your voice 
sounded when you were angry. I could hear it, like 
you were standing right there next to me. Mostly I 
tried not to think about you, but this didn’t hurt so 
much — it was like you were protecting me again. Like 
you didn’t want me to be hurt. 

“And, well, I wonder if the reason I could hear you so 
clearly was because, underneath it all, I always knew 
that you hadn’t stopped loving me.” 

Again, as I spoke, the words brought with them a 
sense of conviction. Of rightness. Some deep place 
inside me recognized truth. 

His words came out half-strangled. 

“You... were... risking your life... to hear — ” 

547 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Shh,” I interrupted him. “Hold on a second. I think 
I’m having an epiphany here.” 



I thought of that night in Port Angeles when I’d had 
my first delusion. I’d come up with two options. 
Insanity or wish fulfillment. I’d seen no third option. 

But what if. . . 

What if you sincerely believed something was true, 
but you were dead wrong? What if you were so 
stubbornly sure that you were right, that you 
wouldn’t even consider the truth? Would the truth be 
silenced, or would it try to break through? 

Option three: Edward loved me. The bond forged 
between us was not one that could be broken by 
absence, distance, or time. And no matter how much 
more special or beautiful or brilliant or perfect than 
me he might be, he was as irreversibly altered as I 
was. As I would always belong to him, so would he 
always be mine. 

Was that what I’d been trying to tell myself? 

“Oh!” 

“Bella?” 

“Oh. Okay. I see.” 

“Your epiphany?” he asked, his voice uneven and 
strained. 

“You love me,” I marveled. The sense of conviction 
and rightness washed through me again. 

Though his eyes were still anxious, the crooked smile 
I loved best flashed across his face. “Truly, I do.” 

548 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




My heart inflated like it was going to crack right 
through my ribs. It filled my chest and blocked my 
throat so that I could not speak. 

He really did want me the way I wanted him — forever. 
It was only fear for my soul, for the human things he 
didn’t want to take from me, that made him so 
desperate to leave me mortal. Compared to the fear 
that he didn’t want me, this hurdle — my soul — 
seemed almost insignificant. 

He took my face tightly between his cool hands and 
kissed me until I was so dizzy the forest was spinning. 
Then he leaned his forehead against mine, and I was 
not the only one breathing harder than usual. 

“You were better at it than I was, you know,” he told 
me. 

“Better at what?” 

“Surviving. You, at least, made an effort. You got up 
in the morning, tried to be normal for Charlie, 
followed the pattern of your life. When I wasn’t 
actively tracking, I was... totally useless. I couldn’t be 
around my family — I couldn’t be around anyone. I’m 
embarrassed to admit that I more or less curled up 
into a ball and let the misery have me.” He grinned, 
sheepish. “It was much more pathetic than hearing 
voices. And, of course, you know I do that, too.” 

I was deeply relieved that he really seemed to 
understand — comforted that this all made sense to 
him. At any rate, he wasn’t looking at me like I was 
crazy. He was looking at me like... he loved me. 

“I only heard one voice,” I corrected him. 



549 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed and then pulled me tight against his right 
side and started to lead me forward. 

“I’m just humoring you with this.” He motioned 
broadly with his hand toward the darkness in front of 
us as we walked. There was something pale and 
immense there — the house, I realized. “It doesn’t 
matter in the slightest what they say.” 

“This affects them now, too.” 

He shrugged indifferently. 

He led me through the open front door into the dark 
house and flipped the lights on. The room was just as 
I’d remembered it — the piano and the white couches 
and the pale, massive staircase. No dust, no white 
sheets. 

Edward called out the names with no more volume 
than I’d use in regular conversation. “Carlisle? Esme? 
Rosalie? Emmett? Jasper? Alice?” They would hear. 

Carlisle was suddenly standing beside me, as if he’d 
been there all along. “Welcome back, Bella.” He 
smiled. “What can we do for you this morning? I 
imagine, due to the hour, that this is not a purely 
social visit?” 

I nodded. “I’d like to talk to everyone at once, if that’s 
okay. About something important.” 

I couldn’t help glancing up at Edward’s face as I 
spoke. His expression was critical, but resigned. 

When I looked back to Carlisle, he was looking at 
Edward, too. 

“Of course,” Carlisle said. “Why don’t we talk in the 
other room?” 

550 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Carlisle led the way through the bright living room, 
around the corner to the dining room, turning on 
lights as he went. The walls were white, the ceilings 
high, like the living room. In the center of the room, 
under the low-hanging chandelier, was a large, 
polished oval table surrounded by eight chairs. 
Carlisle held out a chair for me at the head. 

I’d never seen the Cullens use the dining room table 
before — it was just a prop. They didn’t eat in the 
house. 

As soon as I turned to sit in the chair, I saw that we 
were not alone. Esme had followed Edward, and 
behind her the rest of the family filed in. 

Carlisle sat down on my right, and Edward on my left. 
Everyone else took their seats in silence. Alice was 
grinning at me, already in on the plot. Emmett and 
Jasper looked curious, and Rosalie smiled at me 
tentatively. My answering smile was just as timid. 
That was going to take some getting used to. 

Carlisle nodded toward me. “The floor is yours.” 

I swallowed. Their gazing eyes made me nervous. 
Edward took my hand under the table. I peeked at 
him, but he was watching the others, his face 
suddenly fierce. 

“Well,” I paused. “I’m hoping Alice has already told 
you everything that happened in Volterra?” 

“Everything,” Alice assured me. 

I threw her a meaningful look. “And on the way?” 

“That, too,” she nodded. 



551 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Good,” I sighed with relief. “Then we’re all on the 
same page.” 

They waited patiently while I tried to order my 
thoughts. 

“So, I have a problem,” I began. “Alice promised the 
Volturi that I would become one of you. They’re going 
to send someone to check, and I’m sure that’s a bad 
thing — something to avoid. 

“And so, now, this involves you all. I’m sorry about 
that.” I looked at each one of their beautiful faces, 
saving the most beautiful for last. Edward’s mouth 
was turned down into a grimace. “But, if you don’t 
want me, then I’m not going to force myself on you, 
whether Alice is willing or not.” 

Esme opened her mouth to speak, but I held up one 
finger to stop her. 

“Please, let me finish. You all know what I want. And 
I’m sure you know what Edward thinks, too. I think 
the only fair way to decide is for everyone to have a 
vote. If you decide you don’t want me, then... I guess 
I’ll go back to Italy alone. I can’t have them coming 
here.” My forehead creased as I considered that. 

There was the faint rumble of a growl in Edward’s 
chest. I ignored him. 

“Taking into account, then, that I won’t put any of 
you in danger either way, I want you to vote yes or no 
on the issue of me becoming a vampire.” 

I half-smiled on the last word, and gestured toward 
Carlisle to begin. 

“Just a minute,” Edward interrupted. 

552 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I glared at him through narrowed eyes. He raised his 
eyebrows at me, squeezing my hand. 



“I have something to add before we vote.” 

I sighed. 

“About the danger Bella’s referring to,” he continued. 

“I don’t think we need to be overly anxious.” 

His expression became more animated. He put his 
free hand on the shining table and leaned forward. 

“You see,” he explained, looking around the table 
while he spoke, “there was more than one reason why 
I didn’t want to shake Aro’s hand there at the end. 
There’s something they didn’t think of, and I didn’t 
want to clue them in.” He grinned. 

“Which was?” Alice prodded. I was sure my 
expression was just as skeptical as hers. 

“The Volturi are overconfident, and with good reason. 
When they decide to find someone, it’s not really a 
problem. Do you remember Demetri?” He glanced 
down at me. 

I shuddered. He took that as a yes. 

“He finds people — that’s his talent, why they keep 
him. 

“Now, the whole time we were with any of them, I was 
picking their brains for anything that might save us, 
getting as much information as possible. So I saw 
how Demetri’s talent works. He’s a tracker — a tracker 
a thousand times more gifted than James was. His 
ability is loosely related to what I do, or what Aro 
does. He catches the... flavor? I don’t know how to 
553 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




describe it... the tenor... of someone’s mind, and then 
he follows that. It works over immense distances. 

“But after Aro’s little experiments, well ...” Edward 
shrugged. 

“You think he won’t be able to find me,” I said flatly. 

He was smug. “I’m sure of it. He relies totally on that 
other sense. When it doesn’t work with you, they’ll all 
be blind.” 

“And how does that solve anything?” 

“Quite obviously, Alice will be able to tell when they’re 
planning a visit, and I’ll hide you. They’ll be helpless,” 
he said with fierce enjoyment. “It will be like looking 
for a piece of straw in a haystack!” 

He and Emmett exchanged a glance and a smirk. 

This made no sense. “But they can find you,” I 
reminded him. 

“And I can take care of myself.” 

Emmett laughed, and reached across the table toward 
his brother, extending a fist. 

“Excellent plan, my brother,” he said with 
enthusiasm. 

Edward stretched out his arm to smack Emmett’s fist 
with his own. 

“No,” Rosalie hissed. 

“Absolutely not,” I agreed. 



554 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nice.” Jasper’s voice was appreciative. 

“Idiots,” Alice muttered. 

Esme just glared at Edward. 

I straightened up in my chair, focusing. This was my 
meeting. 

“All right, then. Edward has offered an alternative for 
you to consider,” I said coolly. “Let’s vote.” 

I looked toward Edward this time; it would be better 
to get his opinion out of the way. “Do you want me to 
join your family?” 

His eyes were hard and black as flint. “Not that way. 
You’re staying human.” 

I nodded once, keeping my face businesslike, and 
then moved on. 

“Alice?” 

“Yes.” 

“Jasper?” 

“Yes,” he said, voice grave. I was a little surprised — I 
hadn’t been at all sure of his vote — but I suppressed 
my reaction and moved on. 

“Rosalie?” 

She hesitated, biting down on her full, perfect bottom 
lip. “No.” 



555 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I kept my face blank and turned my head slightly to 
move on, but she held up both her hands, palms 
forward. 

“Let me explain,” she pleaded. “I don’t mean that I 
have any aversion to you as a sister. It’s just 
that... this is not the life I would have chosen for 
myself. I wish there had been someone there to vote 
no for me.” 

I nodded slowly, and then turned to Emmett. 

“Hell, yes!” He grinned. “We can find some other way 
to pick a fight with this Demetri.” 

I was still grimacing at that when I looked at Esme. 

“Yes, of course, Bella. I already think of you as part of 
my family.” 

“Thank you, Esme,” I murmured as I turned toward 
Carlisle. 

I was suddenly nervous, wishing I had asked for his 
vote first. I was sure that this was the vote that 
mattered most, the vote that counted more than any 
majority. 

Carlisle wasn’t looking at me. 

“Edward,” he said. 

“No,” Edward growled. His jaw was strained tight, his 
lips curled back from his teeth. 

“It’s the only way that makes sense,” Carlisle insisted. 
“You’ve chosen not to live without her, and that 
doesn’t leave me a choice.” 



556 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward dropped my hand, shoving away from the 
table. He stalked out of the room, snarling under his 
breath. 

“I guess you know my vote.” Carlisle sighed. 

I was still staring after Edward. “Thanks,” I mumbled. 

An earsplitting crash echoed from the other room. 

I flinched, and spoke quickly. “That’s all I needed. 
Thank you. For wanting to keep me. I feel exactly the 
same way about all of you, too.” My voice was jagged 
with emotion by the end. 

Esme was at my side in a flash, her cold arms around 
me. 

“Dearest Bella,” she breathed. 

I hugged her back. Out of the corner of my eye, I 
noticed Rosalie looking down at the table, and I 
realized that my words could be construed in two 
ways. 

“Well, Alice,” I said when Esme released me. “Where 
do you want to do this?” 

Alice stared at me, her eyes widening with terror. 

“No! No! NO!” Edward roared, charging back into the 
room. He was in my face before I had time to blink, 
bending over me, his expression twisted in rage. “Are 
you insane?” he shouted. “Have you utterly lost your 
mind?” 

I cringed away, my hands over my ears. 



557 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Um, Bella,” Alice interjected in an anxious voice. “I 
don’t think I’m ready for that. I’ll need to prepare....” 

“You promised,” I reminded her, glaring under 
Edward’s arm. 

“I know, but... Seriously, Bella! I don’t have any idea 
how to not kill you.” 

“You can do it,” I encouraged. “I trust you.” 

Edward snarled in fury. 

Alice shook her head quickly, looking panicked. 

“Carlisle?” I turned to look at him. 

Edward grabbed my face in his hand, forcing me to 
look at him. His other hand was out, palm toward 
Carlisle. 

Carlisle ignored that. “I’m able to do it,” he answered 
my question. I wished I could see his expression. “You 
would be in no danger of me losing control.” 

“Sounds good.” I hoped he could understand; it was 
hard to talk clearly the way Edward held my jaw. 

“Hold on,” Edward said between his teeth. “It doesn’t 
have to be now.” 

“There’s no reason for it not to be now,” I said, the 
words coming out distorted. 

“I can think of a few.” 

“Of course you can,” I said sourly. “Now let go of me.” 



558 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He freed my face, and folded his arms across his 
chest. “In about two hours, Charlie will be here 
looking for you. I wouldn’t put it past him to involve 
the police.” 

“All three of them.” But I frowned. 

This was always the hardest part. Charlie, Renee. 

Now Jacob, too. The people I would lose, the people I 
would hurt. I wished there was some way that I could 
be the only one to suffer, but I knew that was 
impossible. 

At the same time, I was hurting them more by staying 
human. Putting Charlie in constant danger through 
my proximity. Putting Jake in worse danger still by 
drawing his enemies across the land he felt bound to 
protect. And Renee — I couldn’t even risk a visit to see 
my own mother for fear of bringing my deadly 
problems along with me! 

I was a danger magnet; I’d accepted that about 
myself. 

Accepting this, I knew I needed to be able to take care 
of myself and protect the ones I loved, even if that 
meant that I couldn’t be with them. I needed to be 
strong. 

“In the interest of remaining inconspicuous,” Edward 
said, still talking through his gritted teeth, but 
looking at Carlisle now, “I suggest that we put this 
conversation off, at the very least until Bella finishes 
high school, and moves out of Charlie’s house.” 

“That’s a reasonable request, Bella,” Carlisle pointed 
out. 



559 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I thought about Charlie’s reaction when he woke up 
this morning, if — after all that life had put him 
through in the last week with Harry’s loss, and then I 
had put him through with my unexplained 
disappearance — he were to find my bed empty. 

Charlie deserved better than that. It was just a little 
more time; graduation wasn’t so far away... 

I pursed my lips. “I’ll consider it.” 

Edward relaxed. His jaw unclenched. 

“I should probably take you home,” he said, more 
calm now, but clearly in a hurry to get me out of here. 
“Just in case Charlie wakes up early.” 

I looked at Carlisle. “After graduation?” 

“You have my word.” 

I took a deep breath, smiled, and turned back to 
Edward. “Okay. You can take me home.” 

Edward rushed me out of the house before Carlisle 
could promise me anything else. He took me out the 
back, so I didn’t get to see what was broken in the 
living room. 

It was a quiet trip home. I was feeling triumphant, 
and a little smug. Scared stiff, too, of course, but I 
tried not to think about that part. It did me no good 
to worry about the pain — the physical or the 
emotional — so I wouldn’t. Not until I absolutely had 
to. 

When we got to my house, Edward didn’t pause. He 
dashed up the wall and through my window in half a 
second. Then he pulled my arms from around his 
neck and set me on the bed. 

560 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I thought I had a pretty good idea of what he was 
thinking, but his expression surprised me. Instead of 
furious, it was calculating. He paced silently back and 
forth across my dark room while I watched with 
growing suspicion. 

“Whatever you’re planning, it’s not going to work,” I 
told him. 

“Shh. I’m thinking.” 

“Ugh,” I groaned, throwing myself back on the bed 
and pulling the quilt over my head. 

There was no sound, but suddenly he was there. He 
flipped the cover back so he could see me. He was 
lying next to me. His hand reached up to brush my 
hair from my cheek. 

“If you don’t mind, I’d much rather you didn’t hide 
your face. I’ve lived without it for as long as I can 
stand. Now... tell me something.” 

“What?” I asked, unwilling. 

“If you could have anything in the world, anything at 
all, what would it be?” 

I could feel the skepticism in my eyes. “You.” 

He shook his head impatiently. “Something you don’t 
already have.” 

I wasn’t sure where he was trying to lead me, so I 
thought carefully before I answered. I came up with 
something that was both true, and also probably 
impossible. 



561 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“I would want... Carlisle not to have to do it. I would 
want you to change me.” 

I watched his reaction warily, expecting more of the 
fury I’d seen at his house. I was surprised that his 
expression didn’t change. It was still calculating, 
thoughtful. 

“What would you be willing to trade for that?” 

I couldn’t believe my ears. I gawked at his composed 
face and blurted out the answer before I could think 
about it. 

“Anything.” 

He smiled faintly, and then pursed his lips. “Five 
years?” 

My face twisted into an expression somewhere 
between chagrin and horror. 

“You said anything,” he reminded me. 

“Yes, but... you ’ll use the time to find a way out of it. I 
have to strike while the iron is hot. Besides, it’s just 
too dangerous to be human — for me, at least. So, 
anything but that.” 

He frowned. “Three years?” 

“No!” 

“Isn’t it worth anything to you at all?” 

I thought about how much I wanted this. Better to 
keep a poker face, I decided, and not let him know 
how very much that was. It would give me more 
leverage. “Six months?” 

562 I P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




He rolled his eyes. “Not good enough.” 

“One year, then,” I said. “That’s my limit.” 

“At least give me two.” 

“No way. Nineteen I’ll do. But I’m not going anywhere 
near twenty. If you’re staying in your teens forever, 
then so am I.” 

He thought for a minute. “All right. Forget time limits. 
If you want me to be the one — then you’ll just have to 
meet one condition.” 

“Condition?” My voice went flat. “What condition?” 

His eyes were cautious — he spoke slowly. “Marry me 
first.” 

I stared at him, waiting.... “Okay. What’s the punch 
line?” 

He sighed. “You’re wounding my ego, Bella. I just 
proposed to you, and you think it’s a joke.” 

“Edward, please be serious.” 

“I am one hundred percent serious.” He gazed at me 
with no hint of humor in his face. 

“Oh, c’mon,” I said, an edge of hysteria in my voice. 
“I’m only eighteen.” 

“Well, I’m nearly a hundred and ten. It’s time I settled 
down.” 

I looked away, out the dark window, trying to control 
the panic before it gave me away. 



563 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Look, marriage isn’t exactly that high on my list of 
priorities, you know? It was sort of the kiss of death 
for Renee and Charlie.” 

“Interesting choice of words.” 

“You know what I mean.” 

He inhaled deeply. “Please don’t tell me that you’re 
afraid of the commitment,” his voice was disbelieving, 
and I understood what he meant. 

“That’s not it exactly,” I hedged. “I’m... afraid of Renee. 
She has some really intense opinions on getting 
married before you’re thirty.” 

“Because she’d rather you became one of the eternal 
damned than get married.” He laughed darkly. 

“You think you’re joking.” 

“Bella, if you compare the level of commitment 
between a marital union as opposed to bartering your 
soul in exchange for an eternity as a vampire ...” He 
shook his head. “If you’re not brave enough to marry 
me, then — ” 

“Well,” I interrupted. “What if I did? What if I told you 
to take me to Vegas now? Would I be a vampire in 
three days?” 

He smiled, his teeth flashing in the dark. “Sure,” he 
said, calling my bluff. “I’ll get my car.” 

“Dammit.” I muttered. “I’ll give you eighteen months.” 

“No deal,” he said, grinning. “I like this condition.” 

“Fine. I’ll have Carlisle do it when I graduate.” 

564 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“If that’s what you really want.” He shrugged, and his 
smile became absolutely angelic. 

“You’re impossible,” I groaned. “A monster.” 

He chuckled. “Is that why you won’t marry me?” 

I groaned again. 

He leaned toward me; his night-dark eyes melted and 
smoldered and shattered my concentration. “Please, 
Bella?” he breathed. 

I forgot how to breathe for a moment. When I 
recovered, I shook my head quickly, trying to clear my 
suddenly clouded mind. 

“Would this have gone better if I’d had time to get a 
ring?” 

“No! No rings!” I very nearly shouted. 

“Now you’ve done it,” he whispered. 

“Oops.” 

“Charlie’s getting up; I’d better leave,” Edward said 
with resignation. 

My heart stopped beating. 

He gauged my expression for a second. “Would it be 
childish of me to hide in your closet, then?” 

“No,” I whispered eagerly. “Stay. Please.” 

Edward smiled and disappeared. 



565 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I seethed in the darkness as I waited for Charlie to 
check on me. Edward knew exactly what he was 
doing, and I was willing to bet that all the injured 
surprise was part of the ploy. Of course, I still had the 
Carlisle option, but now that I knew there was a 
chance that Edward would change me himself, I 
wanted it bad. He was such a cheater. 

My door cracked open. 

“Morning, Dad.” 

“Oh, hey, Bella.” He sounded embarrassed at getting 
caught. “I didn’t know you were awake.” 

“Yeah. I’ve just been waiting for you to wake up so I 
could take a shower.” I started to get up. 

“Hold on,” Charlie said, flipping the light on. I blinked 
in the sudden brightness, and carefully kept my eyes 
away from the closet. “Let’s talk for a minute first.” 

I couldn’t control my grimace. I’d forgotten to ask 
Alice for a good excuse. 

“You know you’re in trouble.” 

“Yeah, I know.” 

“I just about went crazy these last three days. I come 
home from Harry’s funeral, and you’re gone. Jacob 
could only tell me that you’d run off with Alice Cullen, 
and that he thought you were in trouble. You didn’t 
leave me a number, and you didn’t call. I didn’t know 
where you were or when — or if — you were coming 
back. Do you have any idea how... how . . .” He 
couldn’t finish the sentence. He sucked in a sharp 
breath and moved on. “Can you give me one reason 



566 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




why I shouldn’t ship you off to Jacksonville this 
second?” 



My eyes narrowed. So it was going to be threats, was 
it? Two could play at that game. I sat up, pulling the 
quilt around me. “Because I won’t go.” 

“Now just one minute, young lady — ” 

“Look, Dad, I accept complete responsibility for my 
actions, and you have the right to ground me for as 
long as you want. I will also do all the chores and 
laundry and dishes until you think I’ve learned my 
lesson. And I guess you’re within your rights if you 
want to kick me out, too — but that won’t make me to 
go to Florida.” 

His face turned bright red. He took a few deep breaths 
before he answered. 

“Would you like to explain where you’ve been?” 

Oh, crap. “There was... an emergency.” 

He raised his eyebrows in expectation of my brilliant 
explanation. 

I filled my cheeks with air and then blew it out 
noisily. “I don’t know what to tell you, Dad. It was 
mostly a misunderstanding. He said, she said. It got 
out of hand.” 

He waited with a distrustful expression. 

“See, Alice told Rosalie about me jumping off the 
cliff....” I was scrambling frantically to make this 
work, to keep it as close to the truth as possible so 
that my inability to lie convincingly would not 
undermine the excuse, but before I could go on, 

567 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie’s expression reminded me that he didn’t know 
anything about the cliff. 

Major oops. As if I wasn’t already toast. 

“I guess I didn’t tell you about that,” I choked out. “It 
was nothing. Just messing around, swimming with 
Jake. Anyway, Rosalie told Edward, and he was 
upset. She sort of accidentally made it sound like I 
was trying to kill myself or something. He wouldn’t 
answer his phone, so Alice dragged me to...L.A., to 
explain in person.” I shrugged, desperately hoping 
that he would not be so distracted by my slip that 
he’d miss the brilliant explanation I’d provided. 

Charlie’s face was frozen. “Were you trying to kill 
yourself, Bella?” 

“No, of course not. Just having fun with Jake. Cliff 
diving. The La Push kids do it all the time. Like I said, 
nothing.” 

Charlie’s face heated up — from frozen to hot with fury. 
“What’s it to Edward Cullen anyway?” he barked. “All 
this time, he’s just left you dangling without a word — 



I interrupted him. “Another misunderstanding.” 

His face flushed again. “So is he back then?” 

“I’m not sure what the exact plan is. I think they all 
are.” 

He shook his head, the vein in his forehead pulsing. “I 
want you to stay away from him, Bella. I don’t trust 
him. He’s rotten for you. I won’t let him mess you up 
like that again.” 



568 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Fine,” I said curtly. 

Charlie rocked back onto his heels. “Oh.” He 
scrambled for a second, exhaling loudly in surprise. “I 
thought you were going to be difficult.” 

“I am.” I stared straight into his eyes. “I meant, ‘Fine, 
I’ll move out.’” 

His eyes bulged; his face turned puce. My resolve 
wavered as I started to worry about his health. He 
was no younger than Harry.... 

“Dad, I don’t want to move out,” I said in a softer 
tone. “I love you. I know you’re worried, but you need 
to trust me on this. And you’re going to have to ease 
up on Edward if you want me to stay. Do you want 
me to live here or not?” 

“That’s not fair, Bella. You know I want you to stay.” 

“Then be nice to Edward, because he’s going to be 
where I am.” I said it with confidence. The conviction 
of my epiphany was still strong. 

“Not under my roof,” Charlie stormed. 

I sighed a heavy sigh. “Look, I’m not going to give you 
any more ultimatums tonight — or I guess it’s this 
morning. Just think about it for a few days, okay? 

But keep in mind that Edward and I are sort of a 
package deal.” 

“Bella—” 

“Think it over,” I insisted. “And while you’re doing 
that, could you give me some privacy? I really need a 
shower.” 



569 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie’s face was a strange shade of purple, but he 
left, slamming the door behind him. I heard him 
stomp furiously down the stairs. 

I threw off my quilt, and Edward was already there, 
sitting in the rocking chair as if he’d been present 
through the whole conversation. 

“Sorry about that,” I whispered. 

“It’s not as if I don’t deserve far worse,” he murmured. 
“Don’t start anything with Charlie over me, please.” 

“Don’t worry about it,” I breathed as I gathered up my 
bathroom things and a set of clean clothes. “I will 
start exactly as much as is necessary, and no more 
than that. Or are you trying to tell me I have nowhere 
to go?” I widened my eyes with false alarm. 

“You’d move in with a house full of vampires?” 

“That’s probably the safest place for someone like me. 
Besides ...” I grinned. “If Charlie kicks me out, then 
there’s no need for a graduation deadline, is there?” 

His jaw tightened. “So eager for eternal damnation,” 
he muttered. 

“You know you don’t really believe that.” 

“Oh, don’t I?” he fumed. 

“No. You don’t.” 

He glowered at me and started to speak, but I cut him 
off. 

“If you really believed that you’d lost your soul, then 
when I found you in Volterra, you would have realized 

570 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




immediately what was happening, instead of thinking 
we were both dead together. But you didn’t — you said 
‘Amazing. Carlisle was right,”’ I reminded him, 
triumphant. “There’s hope in you, after all.” 

For once, Edward was speechless. 

“So let’s both just be hopeful, all right?” I suggested. 
“Not that it matters. If you stay, I don’t need heaven.” 

He got up slowly, and came to put his hands on either 
side of my face as he stared into my eyes. “Forever,” 
he vowed, still a little staggered. 

“That’s all I’m asking for,” I said, and stretched up on 
my toes so that I could press my lips to his. 



571 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 





cryue 



TREATY 



Almost everything was back to normal — the good, pre- 
zombie normal — in less time than I would have 
believed possible. The hospital welcomed Carlisle 
back with eager arms, not even bothering to conceal 
their delight that Esme had found life in L.A. so little 
to her liking. Thanks to the Calculus test I’d missed 
while abroad, Alice and Edward were in better to 
shape to graduate than I was at the moment. 
Suddenly, college was a priority (college was still plan 
B, on the off chance that Edward’s offer swayed me 
from the post-graduation Carlisle option). Many 
deadlines had passed me by, but Edward had a new 
stack of applications for me to fill out every day. He’d 
already done the Harvard route, so it didn’t bother 
him that, thanks to my procrastination, we might 
both end up at Peninsula Community College next 
year. 

Charlie was not happy with me, or speaking to 
Edward. But at least Edward was allowed — during my 
designated visiting hours — inside the house again. I 
just wasn’t allowed out of it. 

School and work were the only exceptions, and the 
dreary, dull yellow walls of my classrooms had 
become oddly inviting to me of late. That had a lot to 
do with the person who sat in the desk beside me. 

Edward had resumed his schedule from the beginning 
of the year, which put him in most of my classes 
again. My behavior had been such last fall, after the 
Cullens’ supposed move to L.A., that the seat beside 
me had never been filled. Even Mike, always eager to 
take any advantage, had kept a safe distance. With 
572 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 



Edward back in place, it was almost as if the last 
eight months were just a disturbing nightmare. 



Almost, but not quite. There was the house arrest 
situation, for one thing. And for another, before the 
fall, I hadn’t been best friends with Jacob Black. So, 
of course, I hadn’t missed him then. 

I wasn’t at liberty to go to La Push, and Jacob wasn’t 
coming to see me. He wouldn’t even answer my phone 
calls. 

I made these calls mostly at night, after Edward had 
been kicked out — promptly at nine by a grimly gleeful 
Charlie — and before Edward snuck back through my 
window when Charlie was asleep. I chose that time to 
make my fruitless calls because I’d noticed that 
Edward made a certain face every time I mentioned 
Jacob’s name. Sort of disapproving and wary... maybe 
even angry. I guessed that he had some reciprocal 
prejudice against the werewolves, though he wasn’t as 
vocal as Jacob had been about the “bloodsuckers.” 

So, I didn’t mention Jacob much. 

With Edward near me, it was hard to think about 
unhappy things — even my former best friend, who 
was probably very unhappy right now, due to me. 
When I did think of Jake, I always felt guilty for not 
thinking of him more. 

The fairy tale was back on. Prince returned, bad spell 
broken. I wasn’t sure exactly what to do about the 
leftover, unresolved character. Where was his happily 
ever after? 

Weeks passed, and Jacob still wouldn’t answer my 
calls. It started to become a constant worry. Like a 
dripping faucet in the back of my head that I couldn’t 

573 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




shut off or ignore. Drip, drip, drip. Jacob, Jacob, 
Jacob. 

So, though I didn’t mention Jacob much, sometimes 
my frustration and anxiety boiled over. 

“It’s just plain rude!” I vented one Saturday afternoon 
when Edward picked me up from work. Being angry 
about things was easier than feeling guilty. 
“Downright insulting!” 

I’d varied my pattern, in hopes of a different response. 
I’d called Jake from work this time, only to get an 
unhelpful Billy. Again. 

“Billy said he didn’t want to talk to me,” I fumed, 
glaring at the rain oozing down the passenger 
window. “That he was there, and wouldn’t walk three 
steps to get to the phone! Usually Billy just says he’s 
out or busy or sleeping or something. I mean, it’s not 
like I didn’t know he was lying to me, but at least it 
was a polite way to handle it. I guess Billy hates me 
now, too. It’s not fair!” 

“It’s not you, Bella,” Edward said quietly. “Nobody 
hates you.” 

“Feels that way,” I muttered, folding my arms across 
my chest. It was no more than a stubborn gesture. 
There was no hole there now — I could barely 
remember the empty feeling anymore. 

“Jacob knows we’re back, and I’m sure that he’s 
ascertained that I’m with you,” Edward said. “He 
won’t come anywhere near me. The enmity is rooted 
too deeply.” 

“That’s stupid. He knows you’re not... like other 
vampires.” 

574 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“There’s still good reason to keep a safe distance.” 

I glared blindly out the windshield, seeing only 
Jacob’s face, set in the bitter mask I hated. 

“Bella, we are what we are,” Edward said quietly. “I 
can control myself, but I doubt he can. He’s very 
young. It would most likely turn into a fight, and I 
don’t know if I could stop it before I k — ” he broke off, 
and then quickly continued. “Before I hurt him. You 
would be unhappy. I don’t want that to happen.” 

I remembered what Jacob had said in the kitchen, 
hearing the words with perfect recall in his husky 
voice. I’m not sure that I’m even-tempered enough to 
handle that.... You probably wouldn’t like it so much if 
I killed your friend. But he’d been able to handle it, 
that time.... 

“Edward Cullen,” I whispered. “Were you about to say 
‘killed him’? Were you?” 

He looked away from me, staring into the rain. In 
front of us, the red light I hadn’t noticed turned green 
and he started forward again, driving very slowly. Not 
his usual way of driving. 

“I would try... very hard... not to do that,” Edward 
finally said. 

I stared at him with my mouth hanging open, but he 
continued to look straight ahead. We were paused at 
the corner stop sign. 

Abruptly, I remembered what had happened to Paris 
when Romeo came back. The stage directions were 
simple: They fight. Paris falls. 



But that was ridiculous. Impossible. 

575 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well,” I said, and took a deep breath, shaking my 
head to dispel the words in my head. “Nothing like 
that is ever going to happen, so there’s no reason to 
worry about it. And you know Charlie’s staring at the 
clock right now. You’d better get me home before I get 
in more trouble for being late.” 

I turned my face up toward him, to smile 
halfheartedly. 

Every time I looked at his face, that impossibly perfect 
face, my heart pounded strong and healthy and very 
there in my chest. This time, the pounding raced 
ahead of its usual besotted pace. I recognized the 
expression on his statue-still face. 

“You’re already in more trouble, Bella,” he whispered 
through unmoving lips. 

I slid closer, clutching his arm as I followed his gaze 
to see what he was seeing. I don’t know what I 
expected — maybe Victoria standing in the middle of 
the street, her flaming red hair blowing in the wind, 
or a line of tall black cloaks... or a pack of angry 
werewolves. But I didn’t see anything at all. 

“What? What is it?” 

He took a deep breath. “Charlie...” 

“My dad?” I screeched. 

He looked down at me then, and his expression was 
calm enough to ease some of my panic. 

“Charlie... is probably not going to kill you, but he’s 
thinking about it,” he told me. He started to drive 
forward again, down my street, but he passed the 
house and parked by the edge of the trees. 

576 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“What did I do?” I gasped. 



Edward glanced back at Charlie’s house. I followed 
his gaze, and noticed for the first time what was 
parked in the driveway next to the cruiser. Shiny, 
bright red, impossible to miss. My motorcycle, 
flaunting itself in the driveway. 

Edward had said that Charlie was ready to kill me, so 
he must know that — that it was mine. There was only 
one person who could be behind this treachery. 

“No!” I gasped. “Why? Why would Jacob do this to 
me?” The sting of betrayal washed through me. I had 
trusted Jacob implicitly — trusted him with every 
single secret I had. He was supposed to be my safe 
harbor — the person I could always rely on. Of course 
things were strained right now, but I didn’t think any 
of the underlying foundation had changed. I didn’t 
think that was changeable! 

What had I done to deserve this? Charlie was going to 
be so mad — and worse than that, he was going to be 
hurt and worried. Didn’t he have enough to deal with 
already? I would have never imagined that Jake could 
be so petty and just plain mean. Tears sprang, 
smarting, into my eyes, but they were not tears of 
sadness. I had been betrayed. I was suddenly so 
angry that my head throbbed like it was going to 
explode. 

“Is he still here?” I hissed. 

“Yes. He’s waiting for us there.” Edward told me, 
nodding toward the slender path that divided the 
dark fringe of the forest in two. 



577 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




I jumped out of the car, launching myself toward the 
trees with my hands already balled into fists for the 
first punch. 

Why did Edward have to be so much faster than me? 

He caught me around the waist before I made the 
path. 

“Let me go! I’m going to murder him! Traitor!” I 
shouted the epithet toward the trees. 

“Charlie will hear you,” Edward warned me. “And 
once he gets you inside, he may brick over the 
doorway.” 

I glanced back at the house instinctively, and it 
seemed like the glossy red bike was all I could see. I 
was seeing red. My head throbbed again. 

“Just give me one round with Jacob, and then 111 deal 
with Charlie.” I struggled futilely to break free. 

“Jacob Black wants to see me. That’s why he’s still 
here.” 

That stopped me cold — took the fight right out of me. 
My hands went limp. They fight; Paris falls. 

I was furious, but not that furious. 

“Talk?” I asked. 

“More or less.” 

“How much more?” My voice shook. 



578 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward smoothed my hair back from my face. “Don’t 
worry, he’s not here to fight me. He’s acting 
as... spokesperson for the pack.” 

“Oh.” 

Edward looked at the house again, then tightened his 
arm around my waist and pulled me toward the 
woods. “We should hurry. Charlie’s getting 
impatient.” 

We didn’t have to go far; Jacob waited just a short 
ways up the path. He lounged against a mossy tree 
trunk as he waited, his face hard and bitter, exactly 
the way I knew it would be. He looked at me, and 
then at Edward. Jacob’s mouth stretched into a 
humorless sneer, and he shrugged away from the 
tree. He stood on the balls of his bare feet, leaning 
slightly forward, with his trembling hands clenched 
into fists. He looked bigger than the last time I’d seen 
him. Somehow, impossibly, he was still growing. He 
would tower over Edward, if they stood next to each 
other. 

But Edward stopped as soon as we saw him, leaving a 
wide space between us and Jacob. Edward turned his 
body, shifting me so that I was behind him. I leaned 
around him to stare at Jacob — to accuse him with my 
eyes. 

I would have thought that seeing his resentful, 
cynical expression would only make me angrier. 
Instead, it reminded me of the last time I’d seen him, 
with tears in his eyes. My fury weakened, faltered, as 
I stared at Jacob. It had been so long since I’d seen 
him — I hated that our reunion had to be like this. 

“Bella,” Jacob said as a greeting, nodding once toward 
me without looking away from Edward. 

579 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why?” I whispered, trying to hide the sound of the 
lump in my throat. “How could you do this to me, 
Jacob?” 



The sneer vanished, but his face stayed hard and 
rigid. “It’s for the best.” 

“What is that supposed to mean? Do you want 
Charlie to strangle me? Or did you want him to have 
a heart attack, like Harry? No matter how mad you 
are at me, how could you do this to him?” 

Jacob winced, and his eyebrows pulled together, but 
he didn’t answer. 

“He didn’t want to hurt anyone — he just wanted to get 
you grounded, so that you wouldn’t be allowed to 
spend time with me,” Edward murmured, explaining 
the thoughts Jacob wouldn’t say. 

Jacob’s eyes sparked with hate as he glowered at 
Edward again. 

“Aw, Jake!” I groaned. “I’m already grounded! Why do 
you think I haven’t been down to La Push to kick your 
butt for avoiding my phone calls?” 

Jacob’s eyes flashed back to me, confused for the first 
time. “That’s why?” he asked, and then locked his 
jaw, like he was sorry he’d said anything. 

“He thought I wouldn’t let you, not Charlie,” Edward 
explained again. 

“Stop that,” Jacob snapped. 

Edward didn’t answer. 



580 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob shuddered once, and then gritted his teeth as 
hard as his fists. “Bella wasn’t exaggerating about 
your... abilities,” he said through his teeth. “So you 
must already know why I’m here.” 

“Yes,” Edward agreed in a soft voice. “But, before you 
begin, I need to say something.” 

Jacob waited, clenching and unclenching his hands 
as he tried to control the shivers rolling down his 
arms. 

“Thank you,” Edward said, and his voice throbbed 
with the depth of his sincerity. “I will never be able to 
tell you how grateful I am. I will owe you for the rest 
of my... existence.” 

Jacob stared at him blankly, his shudders stilled by 
surprise. He exchanged a quick glance with me, but 
my face was just as mystified. 

“For keeping Bella alive,” Edward clarified, his voice 
rough and fervent. “When I... didn’t.” 

“Edward — ,” I started to say, but he held one hand 
up, his eyes on Jacob. 

Understanding washed over Jacob’s face before the 
hard mask returned. “I didn’t do it for your benefit.” 

“I know. But that doesn’t erase the gratitude I feel. I 
thought you should know. If there’s ever anything in 
my power to do for you...” 

Jacob raised one black brow. 

Edward shook his head. “That’s not in my power.” 

“Whose, then?” Jacob growled. 

581 I P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward looked down at me. “Hers. I’m a quick 
learner, Jacob Black, and I don’t make the same 
mistake twice. I’m here until she orders me away.” 

I was immersed momentarily in his golden gaze. It 
wasn’t hard to understand what I’d missed in the 
conversation. The only thing that Jacob would want 
from Edward would be his absence. 

“Never,” I whispered, still locked in Edward’s eyes. 

Jacob made a gagging sound. 

I unwillingly broke free from Edward’s gaze to frown 
at Jacob. “Was there something else you needed, 
Jacob? You wanted me in trouble — mission 
accomplished. Charlie might just send me to military 
school. But that won’t keep me away from Edward. 
There’s nothing that can do that. What more do you 
want?” 

Jacob kept his eyes on Edward. “I just needed to 
remind your bloodsucking friends of a few key points 
in the treaty they agreed to. The treaty that is the only 
thing stopping me from ripping his throat out right 
this minute.” 

“We haven’t forgotten,” Edward said at the same time 
that I demanded, “What key points?” 

Jacob still glowered at Edward, but he answered me. 
“The treaty is quite specific. If any of them bite a 
human, the truce is over. Bite, not kill,” he 
emphasized. Finally, he looked at me. His eyes were 
cold. 

It only took me a second to grasp the distinction, and 
then my face was as cold as his. 



582 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s none of your business.” 

“The hell it — ” was all he managed to choke out. 

I didn’t expect my hasty words to bring on such a 
strong response. Despite the warning he’d come to 
give, he must not have known. He must have thought 
the warning was just a precaution. He hadn’t 
realized — or didn’t want to believe — that I had already 
made my choice. That I was really intending to 
become a member of the Cullen family. 

My answer sent Jacob into near convulsions. He 
pressed his fists hard against his temples, closing his 
eyes tight and curling in on himself as he tried to 
control the spasms. His face turned sallow green 
under the russet skin. 

“Jake? You okay?” I asked anxiously. 

I took a half-step toward him, then Edward caught 
me and yanked me back behind his own body. 
“Careful! He’s not under control,” he warned me. 

But Jacob was already somewhat himself again; only 
his arms were shaking now. He scowled at Edward 
with pure hate. “Ugh. I would never hurt her.” 

Neither Edward or I missed the inflection, or the 
accusation it contained. A low hiss escaped Edward’s 
lips. Jacob clenched his fists reflexively. 

“BELLA!” Charlie’s roar echoed from the direction of 
the house. “YOU GET IN THIS HOUSE THIS 
INSTANT!” 

All of us froze, listening to the silence that followed. 

I was the first to speak; my voice trembled. “Crap.” 

583 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob’s furious expression faltered. “I am sorry about 
that,” he muttered. “I had to do what I could — I had to 
try....” 

“Thanks.” The tremor in my voice ruined the sarcasm. 
I stared up the path, half-expecting Charlie to come 
barreling through the wet ferns like an enraged bull. I 
would be the red flag in that scenario. 

“Just one more thing,” Edward said to me, and then 
he looked at Jacob. “We’ve found no trace of Victoria 
on our side of the line — have you?” 

He knew the answer as soon as Jacob thought it, but 
Jacob spoke the answer anyway. “The last time was 
while Bella was... away. We let her think she was 
slipping through — we were tightening the circle, 
getting ready to ambush her — ” 

Ice shot down my spine. 

“But then she took off like a bat out of hell. Near as 
we can tell, she caught your little female’s scent and 
bailed. She hasn’t come near our lands since.” 

Edward nodded. “When she comes back, she’s not 
your problem anymore. We’ll — ” 

“She killed on our turf,” Jacob hissed. “She’s ours!” 

“No — ,” I began to protest both declarations. 

“BELLA! I SEE HIS CAR AND I KNOW YOU’RE OUT 
THERE! IF YOU ARENT INSIDE THIS HOUSE IN ONE 
MINUTE...!” Charlie didn’t bother to finish his threat. 

“Let’s go,” Edward said. 



I looked back at Jacob, torn. Would I see him again? 

584 | P a g e New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sorry,” he whispered so low that I had to read his 
lips to understand. “’Bye, Bells.” 

“You promised,” I reminded him desperately. “Still 
friends, right?” 

Jacob shook his head slowly, and the lump in my 
throat nearly strangled me. 

“You know how hard I’ve tried to keep that promise, 
but... I can’t see how to keep trying. Not now . . .” He 
struggled to keep his hard mask in place, but it 
wavered, and then disappeared. “Miss you,” he 
mouthed. One of his hands reached toward me, his 
fingers outstretched, like he wished they were long 
enough to cross the distance between us. 

“Me, too,” I choked out. My hand reached toward his 
across the wide space. 

Like we were connected, the echo of his pain twisted 
inside me. His pain, my pain. 

“Jake ...” I took a step toward him. I wanted to wrap 
my arms around his waist and erase the expression of 
misery on his face. 

Edward pulled me back again, his arms restraining 
instead of defending. 

“It’s okay,” I promised him, looking up to read his face 
with trust in my eyes. He would understand. 

His eyes were unreadable, his face expressionless. 
Cold. “No, it’s not.” 

“Let her go,” Jacob snarled, furious again. “She wants 
to!” He took two long strides forward. A glint of 



585 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




anticipation flashed in his eyes. His chest seemed to 
swell as it shuddered. 

Edward pushed me behind himself, wheeling to face 
Jacob. 

“No! Edward—!” 

“ISABELLA SWAN!” 

“Come on! Charlie’s mad!” My voice was panicked, but 
not because of Charlie now. “Hurry!” 

I tugged on him and he relaxed a little. He pulled me 
back slowly, always keeping his eyes on Jacob as 
were treated. 

Jacob watched us with a dark scowl on his bitter 
face. The anticipation drained from his eyes, and 
then, just before the forest came between us, his face 
suddenly crumpled in pain. 

I knew that last glimpse of his face would haunt me 
until I saw him smile again. 

And right there I vowed that I would see him smile, 
and soon. I would find a way to keep my friend. 

Edward kept his arm tight around my waist, holding 
me close. That was the only thing that held the tears 
inside my eyes. 

I had some serious problems. 

My best friend counted me with his enemies. 

Victoria was still on the loose, putting everyone I 
loved in danger. 



586 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




If I didn’t become a vampire soon, the Volturi would 
kill me. 

And now it seemed that if I did, the Quileute 
werewolves would try to do the job themselves — along 
with trying to kill my future family. I didn’t think they 
had any chance really, but would my best friend get 
himself killed in the attempt? 

Very serious problems. So why did they all suddenly 
seem insignificant when we broke through the last of 
the trees and I caught sight of the expression on 
Charlie’s purple face? 

Edward squeezed me gently. “I’m here.” 

I drew in a deep breath. 

That was true. Edward was here, with his arms 
around me. 

I could face anything as long as that was true. 

I squared my shoulders and walked forward to meet 
my fate, with my destiny solidly at my side. 



587 | P a g e 



New Moon - Stephanie Meyer 




