ace 



All our attempts at subterfage had been in vain. 

With ice in my heart, I watched him prepare to defend 
me. His intense concentration betrayed no hint of 
doubt, though he was outnumbered. I knew that we 
could expect no help — at this moment, his family 
was fighting for their lives just as surely as he was for 
ours. 

Would I ever learn the outcome of that other fight? 
Find out who the winners and the losers were? Would 
I live long enough for that? 

The odds of that didn’t look so great. 

Black eyes, wild with their fierce craving for my death, 
watched for the moment when my protector’s 
attention would be diverted. The moment when I 
would surely die. 

Somewhere, far, far away in the cold forest, a wolf 
howled. 



2 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



ULTIMATUM 



e.e-lla, 

tk'mj fhurWa — a ** 4 * <- 
> . Jf J & 

J— WrfwM— Siv£W»£S^— fc£t«r 



Yvtl — iVv^Uis- t&aS- ' c US^-aB^ — ifkfiy?- 

>*sAay 5 — wi'ts^ 



V»4^afe— 4vof^tel— a&^VSWVcis^— «— iSrfWtpljiS^fcks^}— fi#* 
y^s— 



J— ki-aPW— jW-W-ifttj— jaS^T— Uwt— fctfaS-.'VsJs— jtA^t — 



W#> A^idt — !n» — Vo4 £ 5a!M\ — 'jSWr Va& 'SpiO+it^iiTtj— fill — ‘j'lfW*- 

fcttvo® — >*#0% — < 9 — UsM'-ivH — a^- 



Jt— jW*t— MtSkaS^— ft— WtfMaS- VafrfaiH T J aifrffrlt^-yW— 

H tWi » h.; — Si? — — Vo'WfeC' — Qtv/rt-oWHS- 

Y'-e-Ah, I ITU'S* y*?u tv»<9. A Dt. P^^-siv’t ^haK£j*- AKytHiKg. 
^>rry. 



I ran my fingers across the page, feeling the dents 
where he had pressed the pen to the paper so hard 
that it had nearly broken through. I could picture him 
writing this — scrawling the angry letters in his rough 
handwriting, slashing through line after line when the 
words came out wrong, maybe even snapping the pen 
in his too-big hand; that would explain the ink 
splatters. I could imagine the frustration pulling his 
black eyebrows together and crumpling his forehead. 
If I’d been there, I might have laughed. Don’t give 
yourself a brain hemorrhage, Jacob, I would have told 
him. Just spit it out. 



3 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Laughing was the last thing I felt like doing now as I 
reread the words I’d already memorized. His answer 
to my pleading note — passed from Charlie to Billy to 
him, just like second grade, as he’d pointed out — 
was no surprise. I’d known the essence of what it 
would say before I’d opened it. 

What was surprising was how much each crossed-out 
line wounded me — as if the points of the letters had 
cutting edges. More than that, behind each angry 
beginning lurked a vast pool of hurt; Jacob’s pain cut 
me deeper than my own. 

While I was pondering this, I caught the 
unmistakable scent of a smoking burner rising from 
the kitchen. In another house, the fact that someone 
besides myself was cooking might not be a cause for 
panicking. 

I shoved the wrinkled paper into my back pocket and 
ran, making it downstairs in the nick of time. 

The jar of spaghetti sauce Charlie ’d stuck in the 
microwave was only on its first revolution when I 
yanked the door open and pulled it out. 

“What did I do wrong?” Charlie demanded. 

“You’re supposed to take the lid off first, Dad. Metal’s 
bad for microwaves.” I swiftly removed the lid as I 
spoke, poured half the sauce into a bowl, and then 
put the bowl inside the microwave and the jar back in 
the fridge; I fixed the time and pressed start. 

Charlie watched my adjustments with pursed lips. 
“Did I get the noodles right?” 

I looked in the pan on the stove — the source of the 
smell that had alerted me. “Stirring helps,” I said 

4 | Page Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




mildly. I found a spoon and tried to de-clump the 
mushy hunk that was scalded to the bottom. 

Charlie sighed. 

“So what’s all this about?” I asked him. 

He folded his arms across his chest and glared out 
the back windows into the sheeting rain. “Don’t know 
what you’re talking about,” he grumbled. 

I was mystified. Charlie cooking? And what was with 
the surly attitude? Edward wasn’t here yet; usually 
my dad reserved this kind of behavior for my 
boyfriend’s benefit, doing his best to illustrate the 
theme of “unwelcome” with every word and posture. 
Charlie’s efforts were unnecessary — Edward knew 
exactly what my dad was thinking without the show. 

The word boyfriend had me chewing on the inside of 
my cheek with a familiar tension while I stirred. It 
wasn’t the right word, not at all. I needed something 
more expressive of eternal commitment... . But words 
like destiny and fate sounded hokey when you used 
them in casual conversation. 

Edward had another word in mind, and that word 
was the source of the tension I felt. It put my teeth on 
edge just to think it to myself. 

Fiancee. Ugh. I shuddered away from the thought. 

“Did I miss something? Since when do you make 
dinner?” I asked Charlie. The pasta lump bobbed in 
the boiling water as I poked it. “Or try to make dinner, 
I should say.” 

Charlie shrugged. “There’s no law that says I can’t 
cook in my own house.” 

5 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You would know,” I replied, grinning as I eyed the 
badge pinned to his leather jacket. 

“Ha. Good one.” He shrugged out of the jacket as if 
my glance had reminded him he still had it on, and 
hung it on the peg reserved for his gear. His gun belt 
was already slung in place — he hadn’t felt the need 
to wear that to the station for a few weeks. There had 
been no more disturbing disappearances to trouble 
the small town of Forks, Washington, no more 
sightings of the giant, mysterious wolves in the ever- 
rainy woods... . 

I prodded the noodles in silence, guessing that 
Charlie would get around to talking about whatever 
was bothering him in his own time. My dad was not a 
man of many words, and the effort he had put into 
trying to orchestrate a sit-down dinner with me made 
it clear there were an uncharacteristic number of 
words on his mind. 

I glanced at the clock routinely — something I did 
every few minutes around this time. Less than a half 
hour to go now. 

Afternoons were the hardest part of my day. Ever 
since my former best friend (and werewolf), Jacob 
Black, had informed on me about the motorcycle I’d 
been riding on the sly — a betrayal he had devised in 
order to get me grounded so that I couldn’t spend 
time with my boyfriend (and vampire), Edward Cullen 
— Edward had been allowed to see me only from 
seven till nine-thirty p.m., always inside the confines 
of my home and under the supervision of my dad’s 
unfailingly crabby glare. 

This was an escalation from the previous, slightly less 
stringent grounding that I’d earned for an 



6 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




unexplained three-day disappearance and one 
episode of cliff diving. 



Of course, I still saw Edward at school, because there 
wasn’t anything Charlie could do about that. And 
then, Edward spent almost every night in my room, 
too, but Charlie wasn’t precisely aware of that. 
Edward’s ability to climb easily and silently through 
my second-story window was almost as useful as his 
ability to read Charlie’s mind. 

Though the afternoon was the only time I spent away 
from Edward, it was enough to make me restless, and 
the hours always dragged. Still, I endured my 
punishment without complaining because — for one 
thing — I knew I’d earned it, and — for another — 
because I couldn’t bear to hurt my dad by moving out 
now, when a much more permanent separation 
hovered, invisible to Charlie, so close on my horizon. 

My dad sat down at the table with a grunt and 
unfolded the damp newspaper there; within seconds 
he was clucking his tongue in disapproval. 

“I don’t know why you read the news, Dad. It only 
ticks you off.” 

He ignored me, grumbling at the paper in his hands. 
“This is why everyone wants to live in a small town! 
Ridiculous.” 

“What have big cities done wrong now?” 

“Seattle’s making a run for murder capital of the 
country. Five unsolved homicides in the last two 
weeks. Can you imagine living like that?” 

“I think Phoenix is actually higher up the homicide 
list, Dad. I have lived like that.” And I’d never come 

7 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




close to being a murder victim until after I moved to 
his safe little town. In fact, I was still on several hit 
lists... . The spoon shook in my hands, making the 
water tremble. 

“Well, you couldn’t pay me enough,” Charlie said. 

I gave up on saving dinner and settled for serving it; I 
had to use a steak knife to cut a portion of spaghetti 
for Charlie and then myself, while he watched with a 
sheepish expression. Charlie coated his helping with 
sauce and dug in. I disguised my own clump as well 
as I could and followed his example without much 
enthusiasm. We ate in silence for a moment. Charlie 
was still scanning the news, so I picked up my much- 
abused copy of Wuthering Heights from where I’d left 
it this morning at breakfast, and tried to lose myself 
in turn-of-the-century England while I waited for him 
to start talking. 

I was just to the part where Heathcliff returns when 
Charlie cleared his throat and threw the paper to the 
floor. 

“You’re right,” Charlie said. “I did have a reason for 
doing this.” He waved his fork at the gluey spread. “I 
wanted to talk to you.” 

I laid the book aside; the binding was so destroyed 
that it slumped flat to the table. “You could have just 
asked.” 

He nodded, his eyebrows pulling together. “Yeah. I’ll 
remember that next time. I thought taking dinner off 
your hands would soften you up.” 

I laughed. “It worked — your cooking skills have me 
soft as a marshmallow. What do you need, Dad?” 



8 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, it’s about Jacob.” 



I felt my face harden. “What about him?” I asked 
through stiff lips. 

“Easy, Bells. I know you’re still upset that he told on 
you, but it was the right thing. He was being 
responsible.” 

“Responsible,” I repeated scathingly, rolling my eyes. 
“Right. So, what about Jacob?” 

The careless question repeated inside my head, 
anything but trivial. What about Jacob? What was I 
going to do about him? My former best friend who 
was now ... what? My enemy? I cringed. 

Charlie’s face was suddenly wary. “Don’t get mad at 
me, okay?” 

“Mad?” 

“Well, it’s about Edward, too.” 

My eyes narrowed. 

Charlie’s voice got gruffer. “I let him in the house, 
don’t I?” 

“You do,” I admitted. “For brief periods of time. Of 
course, you might let me out of the house for brief 
periods now and then, too,” I continued — only 
jokingly; I knew I was on lockdown for the duration of 
the school year. “I’ve been pretty good lately.” 

“Well, that’s kind of where I was heading with this... .” 
And then Charlie’s face stretched into an unexpected 
eye-crinkling grin; for a second he looked twenty 
years younger. 

9 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I saw a dim glimmer of possibility in that smile, but I 
proceeded slowly. “I’m confused, Dad. Are we talking 
about Jacob, or Edward, or me being grounded?” 

The grin flashed again. “Sort of all three.” 

“And how do they relate?” I asked, cautious. 

“Okay.” He sighed, raising his hands as if in 
surrender. “So I’m thinking maybe you deserve a 
parole for good behavior. For a teenager, you’re 
amazingly non-whiney.” 

My voice and eyebrows shot up. “Seriously? I’m free?” 

Where was this coming from? I’d been positive I would 
be under house arrest until I actually moved out, and 
Edward hadn’t picked up any wavering in Charlie’s 
thoughts... . 

Charlie held up one finger. “Conditionally.” 

The enthusiasm vanished. “Fantastic,” I groaned. 

“Bella, this is more of a request than a demand, okay? 
You’re free. But I’m hoping you’ll use that freedom ... 
judiciously.” 

“What does that mean?” 

He sighed again. “I know you’re satisfied to spend all 
of your time with Edward — ” 

“I spend time with Alice, too,” I interjected. Edward’s 
sister had no hours of visitation; she came and went 
as she pleased. Charlie was putty in her capable 
hands. 



10 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s true,” he said. “But you have other friends 
besides the Cullens, Bella. Or you used to.” 

We stared at each other for a long moment. 

“When was the last time you spoke to Angela Weber?” 
he threw at me. 

“Friday at lunch,” I answered immediately. 

Before Edward’s return, my school friends had 
polarized into two groups. I liked to think of those 
groups as good vs. evil. Us and them worked, too. The 
good guys were Angela, her steady boyfriend Ben 
Cheney, and Mike Newton; these three had all very 
generously forgiven me for going crazy when Edward 
left. Lauren Mallory was the evil core of the them side, 
and almost everyone else, including my first friend in 
Forks, Jessica Stanley, seemed content to go along 
with her anti-Bella agenda. 

With Edward back at school, the dividing line had 
become even more distinct. 

Edward’s return had taken its toll on Mike’s 
friendship, but Angela was unswervingly loyal, and 
Ben followed her lead. Despite the natural aversion 
most humans felt toward the Cullens, Angela sat 
dutifully beside Alice every day at lunch. After a few 
weeks, Angela even looked comfortable there. It was 
difficult not to be charmed by the Cullens — once one 
gave them the chance to be charming. 

“Outside of school?” Charlie asked, calling my 
attention back. 

“I haven’t seen anyone outside of school, Dad. 
Grounded, remember? And Angela has a boyfriend, 



11 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




too. She’s always with Ben. If I’m really free,” I added, 
heavy on the skepticism, “maybe we could double.” 

“Okay. But then ...” He hesitated. “You and Jake used 
to be joined at the hip, and now — ” 

I cut him off. “Can you get to the point, Dad? What’s 
your condition — exactly?” 

“I don’t think you should dump all your other friends 
for your boyfriend, Bella,” he said in a stern voice. 

“It’s not nice, and I think your life would be better 
balanced if you kept some other people in it. What 
happened last September ...” 

I flinched. 

“Well,” he said defensively. “If you’d had more of a life 
outside of Edward Cullen, it might not have been like 
that.” 

“It would have been exactly like that,” I muttered. 
“Maybe, maybe not.” 

“The point?” I reminded him. 

“Use your new freedom to see your other friends, too. 
Keep it balanced.” 

I nodded slowly. “Balance is good. Do I have specific 
time quotas to fill, though?” 

He made a face, but shook his head. “I don’t want to 
make this complicated. Just don’t forget your friends 



12 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It was a dilemma I was already struggling with. My 
friends. People who, for their own safety, I would 
never be able to see again after graduation. 

So what was the better course of action? Spend time 
with them while I could? Or start the separation now 
to make it more gradual? I quailed at the idea of the 
second option. 

"... particularly Jacob,” Charlie added before I could 
think things through more than that. 

A greater dilemma than the first. It took me a moment 
to find the right words. “Jacob might be ... difficult.” 

“The Blacks are practically family, Bella,” he said, 
stern and fatherly again. “And Jacob has been a very, 
very good friend to you.” 

“I know that.” 

“Don’t you miss him at all?” Charlie asked, frustrated. 

My throat suddenly felt swollen; I had to clear it twice 
before I answered. “Yes, I do miss him,” I admitted, 
still looking down. “I miss him a lot.” 

“Then why is it difficult?” 

It wasn’t something I was at liberty to explain. It was 
against the rules for normal people — human people 
like me and Charlie — to know about the clandestine 
world full of myths and monsters that existed secretly 
around us. I knew all about that world — and I was in 
no small amount of trouble as a result. I wasn’t about 
to get Charlie in the same trouble. 

“With Jacob there is a ... conflict,” I said slowly. “A 
conflict about the friendship thing, I mean. 

13 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




Friendship doesn’t always seem to be enough for 
Jake.” I wound my excuse out of details that were 
true but insignificant, hardly crucial compared to the 
fact that Jacob’s werewolf pack bitterly hated 
Edward’s vampire family — and therefore me, too, as I 
fully intended to join that family. It just wasn’t 
something I could work out with him in a note, and 
he wouldn’t answer my calls. But my plan to deal 
with the werewolf in person had definitely not gone 
over well with the vampires. 

“Isn’t Edward up for a little healthy competition?” 
Charlie’s voice was sarcastic now. 

I leveled a dark look at him. “There’s no competition.” 

“You’re hurting Jake’s feelings, avoiding him like this. 
He’d rather be just friends than nothing.” 

Oh, now I was avoiding him? 

“I’m pretty sure Jake doesn’t want to be friends at 
all.” The words burned in my mouth. “Where ’d you 
get that idea, anyway?” 

Charlie looked embarrassed now. “The subject might 
have come up today with Billy... .” 

“You and Billy gossip like old women,” I complained, 
stabbing my fork viciously into the congealed 
spaghetti on my plate. 

“Billy’s worried about Jacob,” Charlie said. “Jake’s 
having a hard time right now... . He’s depressed.” 

I winced, but kept my eyes on the blob. 

“And then you were always so happy after spending 
the day with Jake.” Charlie sighed. 

14 | Page Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm happy now,” I growled fiercely through my teeth. 

The contrast between my words and tone broke 
through the tension. Charlie burst into laughter, and 
I had to join in. 

“Okay, okay,” I agreed. “Balance.” 

“And Jacob,” he insisted. 

“Ill try.” 

“Good. Find that balance, Bella. And, oh, yeah, you’ve 
got some mail,” Charlie said, closing the subject with 
no attempt at subtlety. “It’s by the stove.” 

I didn’t move, my thoughts twisting into snarls 
around Jacob’s name. It was most likely junk mail; I’d 
just gotten a package from my mom yesterday and I 
wasn’t expecting anything else. 

Charlie shoved his chair away from the table and 
stretched as he got to his feet. He took his plate to the 
sink, but before he turned the water on to rinse it, he 
paused to toss a thick envelope at me. The letter 
skidded across the table and thunked into my elbow. 

“Er, thanks,” I muttered, puzzled by his pushiness. 
Then I saw the return address — the letter was from 
the University of Alaska Southeast. “That was quick. I 
guess I missed the deadline on that one, too.” 

Charlie chuckled. 

I flipped the envelope over and then glared up at him. 
“It’s open.” 

“I was curious.” 



15 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’m shocked, Sheriff. That’s a federal crime.” 

“Oh, just read it.” 

I pulled out the letter, and a folded schedule of 
courses. 

“Congratulations,” he said before I could read 
anything. “Your first acceptance.” 

“Thanks, Dad.” 

“We should talk about tuition. I’ve got some money 
saved up — ” 

“Hey, hey, none of that. I’m not touching your 
retirement, Dad. I’ve got my college fund.” What was 
left of it — and there hadn’t been much to begin with. 

Charlie frowned. “Some of these places are pretty 
pricey, Bells. I want to help. You don’t have to go to 
all the way to Alaska just because it’s cheaper.” 

It wasn’t cheaper, not at all. But it was far away, and 
Juneau had an average of three hundred twenty-one 
overcast days per year. The first was my prerequisite, 
the second was Edward’s. 

“I’ve got it covered. Besides, there’s lots of financial 
aid out there. It’s easy to get loans.” I hoped my bluff 
wasn’t too obvious. I hadn’t actually done a lot of 
research on the subject. 

“So ... ,” Charlie began, and then he pursed his lips 
and looked away. 

“So what?” 



16 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nothing. I was just ...” He frowned. “Just wondering 
what ... Edward’s plans are for next year?” 

“Oh.” 

“Well?” 

Three quick raps on the door saved me. Charlie rolled 
his eyes and I jumped up. 

“Coming!” I called while Charlie mumbled something 
that sounded like, “Go away.” I ignored him and went 
to let Edward in. 

I wrenched the door out of my way — ridiculously 
eager — and there he was, my personal miracle. 

Time had not made me immune to the perfection of 
his face, and I was sure that I would never take any 
aspect of him for granted. My eyes traced over his 
pale white features: the hard square of his jaw, the 
softer curve of his full lips — twisted up into a smile 
now, the straight line of his nose, the sharp angle of 
his cheekbones, the smooth marble span of his 
forehead — partially obscured by a tangle of rain- 
darkened bronze hair... . 

I saved his eyes for last, knowing that when I looked 
into them I was likely to lose my train of thought. 

They were wide, warm with liquid gold, and framed by 
a thick fringe of black lashes. Staring into his eyes 
always made me feel extraordinary — sort of like my 
bones were turning spongy. I was also a little 
lightheaded, but that could have been because I’d 
forgotten to keep breathing. Again. 

It was a face any male model in the world would trade 
his soul for. Of course, that might be exactly the 
asking price: one soul. 

17 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




No. I didn’t believe that. I felt guilty for even thinking 
it, and was glad — as I was often glad — that I was 
the one person whose thoughts were a mystery to 
Edward. 

I reached for his hand, and sighed when his cold 
fingers found mine. His touch brought with it the 
strangest sense of relief — as if I’d been in pain and 
that pain had suddenly ceased. 

“Hey.” I smiled a little at my anticlimactic greeting. 

He raised our interlaced fingers to brush my cheek 
with the back of his hand. “How was your afternoon?” 

“Slow.” 

“For me, as well.” 

He pulled my wrist up to his face, our hands still 
twisted together. His eyes closed as his nose skimmed 
along the skin there, and he smiled gently without 
opening them. Enjoying the bouquet while resisting 
the wine, as he’d once put it. 

I knew that the scent of my blood — so much sweeter 
to him than any other person’s blood, truly like wine 
beside water to an alcoholic — caused him actual 
pain from the burning thirst it engendered. But he 
didn’t seem to shy away from it as much as he once 
had. I could only dimly imagine the Herculean effort 
behind this simple gesture. 

It made me sad that he had to try so hard. I 
comforted myself with the knowledge that I wouldn’t 
be causing him pain much longer. 

I heard Charlie approaching then, stamping his feet 
on the way to express his customary displeasure with 

18 | Page Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




our guest. Edward’s eyes snapped open and he let our 
hands fall, keeping them twined. 

“Good evening, Charlie.” Edward was always 
flawlessly polite, though Charlie didn’t deserve it. 

Charlie grunted at him, and then stood there with his 
arms crossed over his chest. He was taking the idea of 
parental supervision to extremes lately. 

“I brought another set of applications,” Edward told 
me then, holding up a stuffed manila envelope. He 
was wearing a roll of stamps like a ring around his 
littlest finger. 

I groaned. How were there any colleges left that he 
hadn’t forced me to apply to already? And how did he 
keep finding these loophole openings? It was so late 
in the year. 

He smiled as if he could read my thoughts; they must 
have been very obvious on my face. “There are still a 
few open deadlines. And a few places willing to make 
exceptions.” 

I could just imagine the motivations behind such 
exceptions. And the dollar amounts involved. 

Edward laughed at my expression. 

“Shall we?” he asked, towing me toward the kitchen 
table. 

Charlie huffed and followed behind, though he could 
hardly complain about the activity on tonight’s 
agenda. He’d been pestering me to make a decision 
about college on a daily basis. 



19 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I cleared the table quickly while Edward organized an 
intimidating stack of forms. When I moved Wuthering 
Heights to the counter, Edward raised one eyebrow. I 
knew what he was thinking, but Charlie interrupted 
before Edward could comment. 

“Speaking of college applications, Edward,” Charlie 
said, his tone even more sullen — he tried to avoid 
addressing Edward directly, and when he had to, it 
exacerbated his bad mood. “Bella and I were just 
talking about next year. Have you decided where 
you’re going to school?” 

Edward smiled up at Charlie and his voice was 
friendly. “Not yet. I’ve received a few acceptance 
letters, but I’m still weighing my options.” 

“Where have you been accepted?” Charlie pressed. 

“Syracuse ... Harvard ... Dartmouth ... and I just got 
accepted to the University of Alaska Southeast today.” 
Edward turned his face slightly to the side so that he 
could wink at me. I stifled a giggle. 

“Harvard? Dartmouth?” Charlie mumbled, unable to 
conceal his awe. “Well that’s pretty ... that’s 
something. Yeah, but the University of Alaska ... you 
wouldn’t really consider that when you could go Ivy 
League. I mean, your father would want you to ...” 

“Carlisle’s always fine with whatever I choose to do,” 
Edward told him serenely. 

“Hmph.” 

“Guess what, Edward?” I asked in a bright voice, 
playing along. 

“What, Bella?” 

20 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I pointed to the thick envelope on the counter. “I just 
got my acceptance to the University of Alaska!” 

“Congratulations!” He grinned. “What a coincidence.” 

Charlie’s eyes narrowed and he glared back and forth 
between the two of us. “Fine,” he muttered after a 
minute. “I’m going to go watch the game, Bella. Nine- 
thirty.” 

That was his usual parting command. 

“Er, Dad? Remember the very recent discussion about 
my freedom ... ?” 

He sighed. “Right. Okay, ten-thirty. You still have a 
curfew on school nights.” 

“Bella’s no longer grounded?” Edward asked. Though 
I knew he wasn’t really surprised, I couldn’t detect 
any false note to the sudden excitement in his voice. 

“Conditionally,” Charlie corrected through his teeth. 
“What’s it to you?” 

I frowned at my dad, but he didn’t see. 

“It’s just good to know,” Edward said. “Alice has been 
itching for a shopping partner, and I’m sure Bella 
would love to see some city lights.” He smiled at me. 

But Charlie growled, “No!” and his face flushed 
purple. 

“Dad! What’s the problem?” 

He made an effort to unclench his teeth. “I don’t want 
you going to Seattle right now.” 



21 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Huh?” 



“I told you about that story in the paper — there’s 
some kind of gang on a killing spree in Seattle and I 
want you to steer clear, okay?” 

I rolled my eyes. “Dad, there’s a better chance that I’ll 
get struck by lightning than that the one day I’m in 
Seattle — ” 

“No, that’s fine, Charlie,” Edward said, interrupting 
me. “I didn’t mean Seattle. I was thinking Portland, 
actually. I wouldn’t have Bella in Seattle, either. Of 
course not.” 

I looked at him in disbelief, but he had Charlie’s 
newspaper in his hands and he was reading the front 
page intently. 

He must have been trying to appease my father. The 
idea of being in danger from even the most deadly of 
humans while I was with Alice or Edward was 
downright hilarious. 

It worked. Charlie stared at Edward for one second 
more, and then shrugged. “Fine.” He stalked off 
toward the living room, in a bit of a hurry now — 
maybe he didn’t want to miss tip-off. 

I waited till the TV was on, so that Charlie wouldn’t 
be able to hear me. 

“What — ,” I started to ask. 

“Hold on,” Edward said without looking up from the 
paper. His eyes stayed focused on the page as he 
pushed the first application toward me across the 
table. “I think you can recycle your essays for this 
one. Same questions.” 

22 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Charlie must still be listening. I sighed and started to 
fill out the repetitive information: name, address, 
social... . After a few minutes I glanced up, but 
Edward was now staring pensively out the window. As 
I bent my head back to my work, I noticed for the first 
time the name of the school. 

I snorted and shoved the papers aside. 

“Bella?” 

“Be serious, Edward. Dartmouth?” 

Edward lifted the discarded application and laid it 
gently in front of me again. “I think you’d like New 
Hampshire,” he said. “There’s a full complement of 
night courses for me, and the forests are very 
conveniently located for the avid hiker. Plentiful 
wildlife.” He pulled out the crooked smile he knew I 
couldn’t resist. 

I took a deep breath through my nose. 

“I’ll let you pay me back, if that makes you happy,” he 
promised. “If you want, I can charge you interest.” 

“Like I could even get in without some enormous 
bribe. Or was that part of the loan? The new Cullen 
wing of the library? Ugh. Why are we having this 
discussion again?” 

“Will you just fill out the application, please, Bella? It 
won’t hurt you to apply.” 

My jaw flexed. “You know what? I don’t think I will.” 

I reached for the papers, planning to crumple them 
into a suitable shape for lobbing at the trashcan, but 
they were already gone. I stared at the empty table for 

23 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




a moment, and then at Edward. He didn’t appear to 
have moved, but the application was probably already 
tucked away in his jacket. 

“What are you doing?” I demanded. 

“I sign your name better than you do yourself. You’ve 
already written the essays.” 

“You’re going way overboard with this, you know.” I 
whispered on the off chance that Charlie wasn’t 
completely lost in his game. “I really don’t need to 
apply anywhere else. I’ve been accepted in Alaska. I 
can almost afford the first semester’s tuition. It’s as 
good an alibi as any. There’s no need to throw away a 
bunch of money, no matter whose it is.” 

A pained looked tightened his face. “Bella — ” 

“Don’t start. I agree that I need to go through the 
motions for Charlie’s sake, but we both know I’m not 
going to be in any condition to go to school next fall. 
To be anywhere near people.” 

My knowledge of those first few years as a new 
vampire was sketchy. Edward had never gone into 
details — it wasn’t his favorite subject — but I knew it 
wasn’t pretty. Self-control was apparently an acquired 
skill. Anything more than correspondence school was 
out of the question. 

“I thought the timing was still undecided,” Edward 
reminded me softly. “You might enjoy a semester or 
two of college. There are a lot of human experiences 
you’ve never had.” 

“I’ll get to those afterward.” 



24 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“They won’t be human experiences afterward. You 
don’t get a second chance at humanity, Bella.” 



I sighed. “You’ve got to be reasonable about the 
timing, Edward. It’s just too dangerous to mess 
around with.” 

“There’s no danger yet,” he insisted. 

I glared at him. No danger? Sure. I only had a sadistic 
vampire trying to avenge her mate’s death with my 
own, preferably through some slow and torturous 
method. Who was worried about Victoria? And, oh 
yeah, the Volturi — the vampire royal family with 
their small army of vampire warriors — who insisted 
that my heart stop beating one way or another in the 
near future, because humans weren’t allowed to know 
they existed. Right. No reason at all to panic. 

Even with Alice keeping watch — Edward was relying 
on her uncannily accurate visions of the future to give 
us advance warning — it was insane to take chances. 

Besides, I’d already won this argument. The date for 
my transformation was tentatively set for shortly after 
my graduation from high school, only a handful of 
weeks away. 

A sharp jolt of unease pierced my stomach as I 
realized how short the time really was. Of course this 
change was necessary — and the key to what I 
wanted more than everything else in the world put 
together — but I was deeply conscious of Charlie 
sitting in the other room enjoying his game, just like 
every other night. And my mother, Renee, far away in 
sunny Florida, still pleading with me to spend the 
summer on the beach with her and her new husband. 
And Jacob, who, unlike my parents, would know 
exactly what was going on when I disappeared to 
25 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




some distant school. Even if my parents didn’t grow 
suspicious for a long time, even if I could put off visits 
with excuses about travel expenses or study loads or 
illnesses, Jacob would know the truth. 

For a moment, the idea of Jacob’s certain revulsion 
overshadowed every other pain. 

“Bella,” Edward murmured, his face twisting when he 
read the distress in mine. “There’s no hurry. I won’t 
let anyone hurt you. You can take all the time you 
need.” 

“I want to hurry,” I whispered, smiling weakly, trying 
to make a joke of it. “I want to be a monster, too.” 

His teeth clenched; he spoke through them. “You 
have no idea what you’re saying.” Abruptly, he flung 
the damp newspaper onto the table in between us. 

His finger stabbed the headline on the front page: 

DEATH TOLL ON THE RISE, POLICE FEAR GANG 
ACTIVITY 

“What does that have to do with anything?” 

“Monsters are not a joke, Bella.” 

I stared at the headline again, and then up to his 
hard expression. “A ... a vampire is doing this?” I 
whispered. 

He smiled without humor. His voice was low and cold. 
“You’d be surprised, Bella, at how often my kind are 
the source behind the horrors in your human news. 
It’s easy to recognize, when you know what to look 
for. The information here indicates a newborn 
vampire is loose in Seattle. Bloodthirsty, wild, out of 
control. The way we all were.” 

26 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I let my gaze drop to the paper again, avoiding his 
eyes. 

“We’ve been monitoring the situation for a few weeks. 
All the signs are there — the unlikely disappearances, 
always in the night, the poorly disposed-of corpses, 
the lack of other evidence... . Yes, someone brand- 
new. And no one seems to be taking responsibility for 
the neophyte... .” He took a deep breath. “Well, it’s not 
our problem. We wouldn’t even pay attention to the 
situation if wasn’t going on so close to home. Like I 
said, this happens all the time. The existence of 
monsters results in monstrous consequences.” 

I tried not to see the names on the page, but they 
jumped out from the rest of the print like they were in 
bold. The five people whose lives were over, whose 
families were mourning now. It was different from 
considering murder in the abstract, reading those 
names. Maureen Gardiner, Geoffrey Campbell, Grace 
Razi, Michelle O’Connell, Ronald Albrook. People 
who’d had parents and children and friends and pets 
and jobs and hopes and plans and memories and 
futures... . 

“It won’t be the same for me,” I whispered, half to 
myself. “You won’t let me be like that. We’ll live in 
Antarctica.” 

Edward snorted, breaking the tension. “Penguins. 
Lovely.” 

I laughed a shaky laugh and knocked the paper off 
the table so I wouldn’t have to see those names; it hit 
the linoleum with a thud. Of course Edward would 
consider the hunting possibilities. He and his 
“vegetarian” family — all committed to protecting 
human life — preferred the flavor of large predators 
for satisfying their dietary needs. “Alaska, then, as 
27 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




planned. Only somewhere much more remote than 
Juneau — somewhere with grizzlies galore.” 

“Better,” he allowed. “There are polar bears, too. Very 
fierce. And the wolves get quite large.” 

My mouth fell open and my breath blew out in a 
sharp gust. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked. Before I could recover, the 
confusion vanished and his whole body seemed to 
harden. “Oh. Never mind the wolves, then, if the idea 
is offensive to you.” His voice was stiff, formal, his 
shoulders rigid. 

“He was my best friend, Edward,” I muttered. It stung 
to use the past tense. “Of course the idea offends me.” 

“Please forgive my thoughtlessness,” he said, still very 
formal. “I shouldn’t have suggested that.” 

“Don’t worry about it.” I stared at my hands, clenched 
into a double fist on the table. 

We were both silent for a moment, and then his cool 
finger was under my chin, coaxing my face up. His 
expression was much softer now. 

“Sorry. Really.” 

“I know. I know it’s not the same thing. I shouldn’t 
have reacted that way. It’s just that ... well, I was 
already thinking about Jacob before you came over.” I 
hesitated. His tawny eyes seemed to get a little bit 
darker whenever I said Jacob’s name. My voice 
turned pleading in response. “Charlie says Jake is 
having a hard time. He’s hurting right now, and ... it’s 
my fault.” 



28 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’ve done nothing wrong, Bella.” 



I took a deep breath. “I need to make it better, 

Edward. I owe him that. And it’s one of Charlie’s 
conditions, anyway — ” 

His face changed while I spoke, turning hard again, 
statue-like. 

“You know it’s out of the question for you to be 
around a werewolf unprotected, Bella. And it would 
break the treaty if any of us cross over onto their 
land. Do you want us to start a war?” 

“Of course not!” 

“Then there’s really no point in discussing the matter 
further.” He dropped his hand and looked away, 
searching for a subject change. His eyes paused on 
something behind me, and he smiled, though his eyes 
stayed wary. 

“I’m glad Charlie has decided to let you out — you’re 
sadly in need of a visit to the bookstore. I can’t believe 
you’re reading Wuthering Heights again. Don’t you 
know it by heart yet?” 

“Not all of us have photographic memories,” I said 
curtly. 

“Photographic memory or not, I don’t understand why 
you like it. The characters are ghastly people who 
ruin each others’ lives. I don’t know how Heathcliff 
and Cathy ended up being ranked with couples like 
Romeo and Juliet or Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy. 
It isn’t a love story, it’s a hate story.” 

“You have some serious issues with the classics,” I 
snapped. 

29 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Perhaps it’s because I’m not impressed by antiquity.” 
He smiled, evidently satisfied that he’d distracted me. 
“Honestly, though, why do you read it over and over?” 
His eyes were vivid with real interest now, trying — 
again — to unravel the convoluted workings of my 
mind. He reached across the table to cradle my face 
in his hand. “What is it that appeals to you?” 

His sincere curiosity disarmed me. “I’m not sure,” I 
said, scrambling for coherency while his gaze 
unintentionally scattered my thoughts. “I think it’s 
something about the inevitability. How nothing can 
keep them apart — not her selfishness, or his evil, or 
even death, in the end... .” 

His face was thoughtful as he considered my words. 
After a moment he smiled a teasing smile. “I still 
think it would be a better story if either of them had 
one redeeming quality.” 

“I think that may be the point,” I disagreed. “Their 
love is their only redeeming quality.” 

“I hope you have better sense than that — to fall in 
love with someone so ... malignant.” 

“It’s a bit late for me to worry about who I fall in love 
with,” I pointed out. “But even without the warning, I 
seem to have managed fairly well.” 

He laughed quietly. “I’m glad you think so.” 

“Well, I hope you’re smart enough to stay away from 
someone so selfish. Catherine is really the source of 
all the trouble, not Heathcliff.” 

“I’ll be on my guard,” he promised. 



I sighed. He was so good at distractions. 

30 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




I put my hand over his to hold it to my face. “I need to 
see Jacob.” 



His eyes closed. “No.” 

“It’s truly not dangerous at all,” I said, pleading again. 
“I used to spend all day in La Push with the whole lot 
of them, and nothing ever happened.” 

But I made a slip; my voice faltered at the end 
because I realized as I was saying the words that they 
were a lie. It was not true that nothing had ever 
happened. A brief flash of memory — an enormous 
gray wolf crouched to spring, baring his dagger-like 
teeth at me — had my palms sweating with an echo of 
remembered panic. 

Edward heard my heart accelerate and nodded as if 
I’d acknowledged the lie aloud. “Werewolves are 
unstable. Sometimes, the people near them get hurt. 
Sometimes, they get killed.” 

I wanted to deny it, but another image slowed my 
rebuttal. I saw in my head the once beautiful face of 
Emily Young, now marred by a trio of dark scars that 
dragged down the corner of her right eye and left her 
mouth warped forever into a lopsided scowl. 

He waited, grimly triumphant, for me to find my voice. 

“You don’t know them,” I whispered. 

“I know them better than you think, Bella. I was here 
the last time.” 

“The last time?” 

“We started crossing paths with the wolves about 
seventy years ago... . We had just settled near 

31 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




Hoquiam. That was before Alice and Jasper were with 
us. We outnumbered them, but that wouldn’t have 
stopped it from turning into a fight if not for Carlisle. 
He managed to convince Ephraim Black that 
coexisting was possible, and eventually we made the 
truce.” 

Jacob’s great-grandfather’s name startled me. 

“We thought the line had died out with Ephraim,” 
Edward muttered; it sounded like he was talking to 
himself now. “That the genetic quirk which allowed 
the transmutation had been lost... .” He broke off and 
stared at me accusingly. “Your bad luck seems to get 
more potent every day. Do you realize that your 
insatiable pull for all things deadly was strong enough 
to recover a pack of mutant canines from extinction? 

If we could bottle your luck, we’d have a weapon of 
mass destruction on our hands.” 

I ignored the ribbing, my attention caught by his 
assumption — was he serious? “But I didn’t bring 
them back. Don’t you know?” 

“Know what?” 

“My bad luck had nothing to do with it. The 
werewolves came back because the vampires did.” 

Edward stared at me, his body motionless with 
surprise. 

“Jacob told me that your family being here set things 
in motion. I thought you would already know... .” 

His eyes narrowed. “Is that what they think?” 

“Edward, look at the facts. Seventy years ago, you 
came here, and the werewolves showed up. You come 

32 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




back now, and the werewolves show up again. Do you 
think that’s a coincidence?” 

He blinked and his glare relaxed. “Carlisle will be 
interested in that theory.” 

“Theory,” I scoffed. 

He was silent for a moment, staring out the window 
into the rain; I imagined he was contemplating the 
fact that his family’s presence was turning the locals 
into giant dogs. 

“Interesting, but not exactly relevant,” he murmured 
after a moment. “The situation remains the same.” 

I could translate that easily enough: no werewolf 
friends. 

I knew I must be patient with Edward. It wasn’t that 
he was unreasonable, it was just that he didn’t 
understand. He had no idea how very much I owed 
Jacob Black — my life many times over, and possibly 
my sanity, too. 

I didn’t like to talk about that barren time with 
anyone, and especially not Edward. He had only been 
trying to save me when he’d left, trying to save my 
soul. I didn’t hold him responsible for all the stupid 
things I’d done in his absence, or the pain I had 
suffered. 

He did. 

So I would have to word my explanation very 
carefully. 



33 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I got up and walked around the table. He opened his 
arms for me and I sat on his lap, nestling into his cool 
stone embrace. I looked at his hands while I spoke. 

“Please just listen for a minute. This is so much more 
important than some whim to drop in on an old 
friend. Jacob is in pain.” My voice distorted around 
the word. “I can’t not try to help him — I can’t give up 
on him now, when he needs me. Just because he’s 
not human all the time... . Well, he was there for me 
when I was ... not so human myself. You don’t know 
what it was like... .” I hesitated. Edward’s arms were 
rigid around me; his hands were in fists now, the 
tendons standing out. “If Jacob hadn’t helped me ... 
I’m not sure what you would have come home to. I 
owe him better than this, Edward.” 

I looked up at his face warily. His eyes were closed, 
and his jaw was strained. 

“I’ll never forgive myself for leaving you,” he 
whispered. “Not if I live a hundred thousand years.” 

I put my hand against his cold face and waited until 
he sighed and opened his eyes. 

“You were just trying to do the right thing. And I’m 
sure it would have worked with anyone less mental 
than me. Besides, you’re here now. That’s the part 
that matters.” 

“If I’d never left, you wouldn’t feel the need to go risk 
your life to comfort a dog.” 

I flinched. I was used to Jacob and all his derogatory 
slurs — bloodsucker, leech, parasite... . Somehow it 
sounded harsher in Edward’s velvet voice. 



34 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t know how to phrase this properly,” Edward 
said, and his tone was bleak. “It’s going to sound 
cruel, I suppose. But I’ve come too close to losing you 
in the past. I know what it feels like to think I have. I 
am not going to tolerate anything dangerous.” 

“You have to trust me on this. I’ll be fine.” 

His face was pained again. “Please, Bella,” he 
whispered. 

I stared into his suddenly burning golden eyes. 

“Please what?” 

“Please, for me. Please make a conscious effort to 
keep yourself safe. I’ll do everything I can, but I would 
appreciate a little help.” 

“I’ll work on it,” I murmured. 

“Do you really have any idea how important you are 
to me? Any concept at all of how much I love you?” He 
pulled me tighter against his hard chest, tucking my 
head under his chin. 

I pressed my lips against his snow-cold neck. “I know 
how much I love you,” I answered. 

“You compare one small tree to the entire forest.” 

I rolled my eyes, but he couldn’t see. “Impossible.” 

He kissed the top of my head and sighed. 

“No werewolves.” 

“I’m not going along with that. I have to see Jacob.” 

“Then 111 have to stop you.” 

35 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He sounded utterly confident that this wouldn’t be a 
problem. 

I was sure he was right. 

“Well see about that,” I bluffed anyway. “He’s still my 
friend.” 

I could feel Jacob’s note in my pocket, like it suddenly 
weighed ten pounds. I could hear the words in his 
voice, and he seemed to be agreeing with Edward — 
something that would never happen in reality. 

Doesn’t change anything. Sorry. 



36 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





I felt oddly buoyant as I walked from Spanish toward 
the cafeteria, and it wasn’t just because I was holding 
hands with the most perfect person on the planet, 
though that was certainly part of it. 

Maybe it was the knowledge that my sentence was 
served and I was a free woman again. 

Or maybe it wasn’t anything to do with me 
specifically. Maybe it was the atmosphere of freedom 
that hung over the entire campus. School was 
winding down, and, for the senior class especially, 
there was a perceptible thrill in the air. 

Freedom was so close it was touchable, taste-able. 
Signs of it were everywhere. Posters crowded together 
on the cafeteria walls, and the trashcans wore a 
colorful skirt of spilled-over fliers: reminders to buy 
yearbooks, class rings, and announcements; 
deadlines to order graduation gowns, hats, and 
tassels; neon-bright sales pitches — the juniors 
campaigning for class office; ominous, rose-wreathed 
advertisements for this year’s prom. The big dance 
was this coming weekend, but I had an ironclad 
promise from Edward that I would not be subjected to 
that again. After all, I’d already had that human 
experience. 

No, it must be my personal freedom that lightened me 
today. The ending of the school year did not give me 
the pleasure it seemed to give the other students. 
Actually, I felt nervous to the point of nausea 
whenever I thought of it. I tried to not think of it. 



37 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



But it was hard to escape such an omnipresent topic 
as graduation. 

“Have you sent your announcements, yet?” Angela 
asked when Edward and I sat down at our table. She 
had her light brown hair pulled back into a sloppy 
ponytail instead of her usual smooth hairdo, and 
there was a slightly frantic look about her eyes. 

Alice and Ben were already there, too, on either side 
of Angela. Ben was intent over a comic book, his 
glasses sliding down his narrow nose. Alice was 
scrutinizing my boring jeans-and-a-t-shirt outfit in a 
way that made me self-conscious. Probably plotting 
another makeover. I sighed. My indifferent attitude to 
fashion was a constant thorn in her side. If I’d allow 
it, she’d love to dress me every day — perhaps several 
times a day — like some oversized three-dimensional 
paper doll. 

“No,” I answered Angela. “There’s no point, really. 
Renee knows when I’m graduating. Who else is 
there?” 

“How about you, Alice?” 

Alice smiled. “All done.” 

“Lucky you.” Angela sighed. “My mother has a 
thousand cousins and she expects me to hand- 
address one to everybody. I’m going to get carpal 
tunnel. I can’t put it off any longer and I’m just 
dreading it.” 

“I’ll help you,” I volunteered. “If you don’t mind my 
awful handwriting.” 

Charlie would like that. From the corner of my eye, I 
saw Edward smile. He must like that, too — me 

38 | Page Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




fulfilling Charlie’s conditions without involving 
werewolves. 

Angela looked relieved. “That’s so nice of you. I’ll come 
over any time you want.” 

“Actually, I’d rather go to your house if that’s okay — 
I’m sick of mine. Charlie un-grounded me last night.” 

I grinned as I announced my good news. 

“Really?” Angela asked, mild excitement lighting her 
always-gentle brown eyes. “I thought you said you 
were in for life.” 

“I’m more surprised than you are. I was sure I would 
at least have finished high school before he set me 
free.” 

“Well, this is great, Bella! We’ll have to go out to 
celebrate.” 

“You have no idea how good that sounds.” 

“What should we do?” Alice mused, her face lighting 
up at the possibilities. Alice’s ideas were usually a 
little grandiose for me, and I could see it in her eyes 
now — the tendency to take things too far kicking 
into action. 

“Whatever you’re thinking, Alice, I doubt I’m that 
free.” 

“Free is free, right?” she insisted. 

“I’m sure I still have boundaries — like the 
continental U.S., for example.” 

Angela and Ben laughed, but Alice grimaced in real 
disappointment. 

39 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“So what are we doing tonight?” she persisted. 

“Nothing. Look, let’s give it a couple of days to make 
sure he wasn’t joking. It’s a school night, anyway.” 

“Well celebrate this weekend, then.” Alice’s 
enthusiasm was impossible to repress. 

“Sure,” I said, hoping to placate her. I knew I wasn’t 
going to do anything too outlandish; it would be safer 
to take it slow with Charlie. Give him a chance to 
appreciate how trustworthy and mature I was before I 
asked for any favors. 

Angela and Alice started talking about options; Ben 
joined the conversation, setting his comics aside. My 
attention drifted. I was surprised to find that the 
subject of my freedom was suddenly not as gratifying 
as it had been just a moment ago. While they 
discussed things to do in Port Angeles or maybe 
Hoquiam, I began to feel disgruntled. 

It didn’t take long to determine where my restlessness 
stemmed from. 

Ever since I’d said goodbye to Jacob Black in the 
forest outside my home, I’d been plagued by a 
persistent, uncomfortable intrusion of a specific 
mental picture. It popped into my thoughts at regular 
intervals like some annoying alarm clock set to sound 
every half hour, filling my head with the image of 
Jacob’s face crumpled in pain. This was the last 
memory I had of him. 

As the disturbing vision struck again, I knew exactly 
why I was dissatisfied with my liberty. Because it was 
incomplete. 



40 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Sure, I was free to go to anywhere I wanted — except 
La Push; free to do anything I wanted — except see 
Jacob. I frowned at the table. There had to be some 
kind of middle ground. 

“Alice? Alice!” 

Angela’s voice yanked me from my reverie. She was 
waving her hand back and forth in front of Alice’s 
blank, staring face. Alice’s expression was something 
I recognized — an expression that sent an automatic 
shock of panic through my body. The vacant look in 
her eyes told me that she was seeing something very 
different from the mundane lunchroom scene that 
surrounded us, but something that was every bit as 
real in its own way. Something that was coming, 
something that would happen soon. I felt the blood 
slither from my face. 

Then Edward laughed, a very natural, relaxed sound. 
Angela and Ben looked toward him, but my eyes were 
locked on Alice. She jumped suddenly, as if someone 
had kicked her under the table. 

“Is it naptime already, Alice?” Edward teased. 

Alice was herself again. “Sorry, I was daydreaming, I 
guess.” 

“Daydreaming’s better than facing two more hours of 
school,” Ben said. 

Alice threw herself back into the conversation with 
more animation than before — just a little bit too 
much. Once I saw her eyes lock with Edward’s, only 
for a moment, and then she looked back to Angela 
before anyone else noticed. Edward was quiet, playing 
absentmindedly with a strand of my hair. 



41 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I waited anxiously for a chance to ask Edward what 
Alice had seen in her vision, but the afternoon passed 
without one minute of alone time. 

It felt odd to me, almost deliberate. After lunch, 
Edward slowed his pace to match Ben’s, talking about 
some assignment I knew he’d already finished. Then 
there was always someone else there between classes, 
though we usually had a few minutes to ourselves. 
When the final bell rang, Edward struck up a 
conversation with Mike Newton of all people, falling 
into step beside him as Mike headed for the parking 
lot. I trailed behind, letting Edward tow me along. 

I listened, confused, while Mike answered Edward’s 
unusually friendly queries. It seemed Mike was 
having car troubles. 

"... but I just replaced the battery,” Mike was saying. 
His eyes darted ahead and then back to Edward 
warily. Mystified, just like I was. 

“Perhaps it’s the cables?” Edward offered. 

“Maybe. I really don’t know anything about cars,” 

Mike admitted. “I need to have someone look at it, but 
I can’t afford to take it to Dowling’s.” 

I opened my mouth to suggest my mechanic, and 
then snapped it shut again. My mechanic was busy 
these days — busy running around as a giant wolf. 

“I know a few things — I could take a look, if you 
like,” Edward offered. “Just let me drop Alice and 
Bella at home.” 

Mike and I both stared at Edward with our mouths 
hanging open. 



42 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Er ... thanks,” Mike mumbled when he recovered. 
“But I have to get to work. Maybe some other time.” 

“Absolutely.” 

“See ya.” Mike climbed into his car, shaking his head 
in disbelief. 

Edward’s Volvo, with Alice already inside, was just 
two cars away. 

“What was that about?” I muttered as Edward held 
the passenger door for me. 

“Just being helpful,” Edward answered. 

And then Alice, waiting in the backseat, was babbling 
at top speed. 

“You’re really not that good a mechanic, Edward. 
Maybe you should have Rosalie take a look at it 
tonight, just so you look good if Mike decides to let 
you help, you know. Not that it wouldn’t be fun to 
watch his face if Rosalie showed up to help. But since 
Rosalie is supposed to be across the country 
attending college, I guess that’s not the best idea. Too 
bad. Though I suppose, for Mike’s car, you’ll do. It’s 
only within the finer tunings of a good Italian sports 
car that you’re out of your depth. And speaking of 
Italy and sports cars that I stole there, you still owe 
me a yellow Porsche. I don’t know that I want to wait 
for Christmas... .” 

I stopped listening after a minute, letting her quick 
voice become just a hum in the background as I 
settled into my patient mode. 



43 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It looked to me like Edward was trying to avoid my 
questions. Fine. He would have to be alone with me 
soon enough. It was only a matter of time. 

Edward seemed to realize that, too. He dropped Alice 
at the mouth of the Cullens’ drive as usual, though by 
this point I half expected him to drive her to the door 
and walk her in. 

As she got out, Alice threw a sharp look at his face. 
Edward seemed completely at ease. 

“See you later,” he said. And then, ever so slightly, he 
nodded. 

Alice turned to disappear into the trees. 

He was quiet as he turned the car around and headed 
back to Forks. I waited, wondering if he would bring it 
up himself. He didn’t, and this made me tense. What 
had Alice seen today at lunch? Something he didn’t 
want to tell me, and I tried to think of a reason why 
he would keep secrets. Maybe it would be better to 
prepare myself before I asked. I didn’t want to freak 
out and have him think I couldn’t handle it, whatever 
it was. 

So we were both silent until we got to back to 
Charlie’s house. 

“Light homework load tonight,” he commented. 
“Mmm,” I assented. 

“Do you suppose I’m allowed inside again?” 

“Charlie didn’t throw a fit when you picked me up for 
school.” 



44 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




But I was sure Charlie was going to turn sulky fast 
when he got home and found Edward here. Maybe I 
should make something extra-special for dinner. 

Inside, I headed up the stairs, and Edward followed. 
He lounged on my bed and gazed out the window, 
seeming oblivious to my edginess. 

I stowed my bag and turned the computer on. There 
was an unanswered e-mail from my mom to attend to, 
and she got panicky when I took too long. I drummed 
my fingers as I waited for my decrepit computer to 
wheeze awake; they snapped against the desk, 
staccato and anxious. 

And then his fingers were on mine, holding them still. 

“Are we a little impatient today?” he murmured. 

I looked up, intending to make a sarcastic remark, 
but his face was closer than I’d expected. His golden 
eyes were smoldering, just inches away, and his 
breath was cool against my open lips. I could taste his 
scent on my tongue. 

I couldn’t remember the witty response I’d been about 
to make. I couldn’t remember my name. 

He didn’t give me a chance to recover. 

If I had my way, I would spend the majority of my 
time kissing Edward. There wasn’t anything I’d 
experienced in my life that compared to the feeling of 
his cool lips, marble hard but always so gentle, 
moving with mine. 

I didn’t often get my way. 



45 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




So it surprised me a little when his fingers braided 
themselves into my hair, securing my face to his. My 
arms locked behind his neck, and I wished I was 
stronger — strong enough to keep him prisoner here. 
One hand slid down my back, pressing me tighter 
against his stone chest. Even through his sweater, his 
skin was cold enough to make me shiver — it was a 
shiver of pleasure, of happiness, but his hands began 
to loosen in response. 

I knew I had about three seconds before he would 
sigh and slide me deftly away, saying something 
about how we’d risked my life enough for one 
afternoon. Making the most of my last seconds, I 
crushed myself closer, molding myself to the shape of 
him. The tip of my tongue traced the curve of his 
lower lip; it was as flawlessly smooth as if it had been 
polished, and the taste — 

He pulled my face away from his, breaking my hold 
with ease — he probably didn’t even realize that I was 
using all my strength. 

He chuckled once, a low, throaty sound. His eyes 
were bright with the excitement he so rigidly 
disciplined. 

“Ah, Bella.” He sighed. 

“I’d say I’m sorry, but I’m not.” 

“And I should feel sorry that you’re not sorry, but I 
don’t. Maybe I should go sit on the bed.” 

I exhaled a little dizzily. “If you think that’s 
necessary... .” 

He smiled crookedly and disentangled himself. 



46 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I shook my head a few times, trying to clear it, and 
turned back to my computer. It was all warmed up 
and humming now. Well, not as much humming as 
groaning. 

“Tell Renee I said hello.” 

“Sure thing.” 

I scanned through Renee’s e-mail, shaking my head 
now and then at some of the dippier things she’d 
done. I was just as entertained and horrified as the 
first time I’d read this. It was so like my mother to 
forget exactly how paralyzed she was by heights until 
she was already strapped to a parachute and a dive 
instructor. I felt a little frustrated with Phil, her 
husband of almost two years, for allowing that one. I 
would have taken better care of her. I knew her so 
much better. 

You have to let them go their own way eventually, I 
reminded myself. You have to let them have their own 
life... . 

I’d spent most of my life taking care of Renee, 
patiently guiding her away from her craziest plans, 
good-naturedly enduring the ones I couldn’t talk her 
out of. I’d always been indulgent with my mom, 
amused by her, even a little condescending to her. I 
saw her cornucopia of mistakes and laughed privately 
to myself. Scatterbrained Renee. 

I was a very different person from my mother. 

Someone thoughtful and cautious. The responsible 
one, the grown-up. That’s how I saw myself. That was 
the person I knew. 

With the blood still pounding in my head from 
Edward’s kiss, I couldn’t help but think of my 

47 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




mother’s most life-altering mistake. Silly and 
romantic, getting married fresh out of high school to a 
man she barely knew, then producing me a year later. 
She’d always promised me that she had no regrets, 
that I was the best gift her life had ever given her. And 
yet she’d drilled it into me over and over — smart 
people took marriage seriously. Mature people went to 
college and started careers before they got deeply 
involved in a relationship. She knew I would never be 
as thoughtless and goofy and small-town as she’d 
been... . 

I gritted my teeth and tried to concentrate as I 
answered her letter. 

Then I hit her parting line and remembered why I’d 
neglected to write sooner. 

You haven’t said anything about Jacob in a long time, 
she’d written. What’s he up to these days? 

Charlie was prompting her, I was sure. 

I sighed and typed quickly, tucking the answer to her 
question between two less sensitive paragraphs. 

Jacob is fine, I guess. I don’t see him much; he 
spends most of his time with a pack of his friends 
down at La Push these days. 

Smiling wryly to myself, I added Edward’s greeting 
and hit “send.” 

I didn’t realize that Edward was standing silently 
behind me again until after I’d turned off the 
computer and shoved away from the desk. I was 
about to scold him for reading over my shoulder when 
I realized that he wasn’t paying any attention to me. 
He was examining a flat black box with wires curling 
48 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




crookedly away from the main square in a way that 
didn’t look healthy for whatever it was. After a 
second, I recognized the car stereo Emmett, Rosalie, 
and Jasper had given me for my last birthday. I’d 
forgotten about the birthday presents hiding under a 
growing pile of dust on the floor of my closet. 

“What did you do to this?” he asked in a horrorstruck 
voice. 

“It didn’t want to come out of the dashboard.” 

“So you felt the need to torture it?” 

“You know how I am with tools. No pain was inflicted 
intentionally.” 

He shook his head, his face a mask of faux tragedy. 
“You killed it.” 

I shrugged. “Oh, well.” 

“It would hurt their feelings if they saw this,” he said. 
“I guess it’s a good thing that you’ve been on house 
arrest. I’ll have to get another one in place before they 
notice.” 

“Thanks, but I don’t need a fancy stereo.” 

“It’s not for your sake that I’m going to replace it.” 

I sighed. 

“You didn’t get much good out of your birthday 
presents last year,” he said in a disgruntled voice. 
Suddenly, he was fanning himself with a stiff 
rectangle of paper. 



49 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I didn’t answer, for fear my voice would shake. My 
disastrous eighteenth birthday — with all its far- 
reaching consequences — wasn’t something I cared to 
remember, and I was surprised that he would bring it 
up. He was even more sensitive about it than I was. 

“Do you realize these are about to expire?” he asked, 
holding the paper out to me. It was another present 
— the voucher for airplane tickets that Esme and 
Carlisle had given me so that I could visit Renee in 
Florida. 

I took a deep breath and answered in a flat voice. “No. 
I’d forgotten all about them, actually.” 

His expression was carefully bright and positive; there 
was no trace of any deep emotion as he continued. 
“Well, we still have a little time. You’ve been liberated 
. . . and we have no plans this weekend, as you refuse 
to go to the prom with me.” He grinned. “Why not 
celebrate your freedom this way?” 

I gasped. “By going to Florida?” 

“You did say something about the continental U.S. 
being allowable.” 

I glared at him, suspicious, trying to understand 
where this had come from. 

“Well?” he demanded. “Are we going to see Renee or 
not?” 

“Charlie will never allow it.” 

“Charlie can’t keep you from visiting your mother. 

She still has primary custody.” 

“Nobody has custody of me. I’m an adult.” 

50 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




He flashed a brilliant smile. “Exactly.” 



I thought it over for a short minute before deciding 
that it wasn’t worth the fight. Charlie would be 
furious — not that I was going to see Renee, but that 
Edward was going with me. Charlie wouldn’t speak to 
me for months, and I’d probably end up grounded 
again. It was definitely smarter not to even bring it 
up. Maybe in a few weeks, as a graduation favor or 
something. 

But the idea of seeing my mother now, not weeks 
from now, was hard to resist. It had been so long 
since I’d seen Renee. And even longer since I’d seen 
her under pleasant circumstances. The last time I’d 
been with her in Phoenix, I’d spent the whole time in 
a hospital bed. The last time she’d come here, I’d been 
more or less catatonic. Not exactly the best memories 
to leave her with. 

And maybe, if she saw how happy I was with Edward, 
she would tell Charlie to ease up. 

Edward scrutinized my face while I deliberated. 

I sighed. “Not this weekend.” 

“Why not?” 

“I don’t want to fight with Charlie. Not so soon after 
he’s forgiven me.” 

His eyebrows pulled together. “I think this weekend is 
perfect,” he muttered. 

I shook my head. “Another time.” 

“You aren’t the only one who’s been trapped in this 
house, you know.” He frowned at me. 

51 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




Suspicion returned. This kind of behavior was unlike 
him. He was always so impossibly selfless; I knew it 
was making me spoiled. 

“You can go anywhere you want,” I pointed out. 

“The outside world holds no interest for me without 
you.” 

I rolled my eyes at the hyperbole. 

“I’m serious,” he said. 

“Let’s take the outside world slowly, all right? For 
example, we could start with a movie in Port 
Angeles... .” 

He groaned. “Never mind. We’ll talk about it later.” 
“There’s nothing left to talk about.” 

He shrugged. 

“Okay, then, new subject,” I said. I’d almost forgotten 
my worries about this afternoon — had that been his 
intention? “What did Alice see today at lunch?” 

My eyes were fixed on his face as I spoke, measuring 
his reaction. 

His expression was composed; there was only the 
slightest hardening of his topaz eyes. “She’s been 
seeing Jasper in a strange place, somewhere in the 
southwest, she thinks, near his former ... family. But 
he has no conscious intentions to go back.” He 
sighed. “It’s got her worried.” 

“Oh.” That was nothing close to what I’d been 
expecting. But of course it made sense that Alice 

52 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




would be watching out for Jasper’s future. He was her 
soul mate, her true other half, though they weren’t as 
flamboyant about their relationship as Rosalie and 
Emmett were. “Why didn’t you tell me before?” 

“I didn’t realize you’d noticed,” he said. “It’s probably 
nothing important, in any case.” 

My imagination was sadly out of control. I’d taken a 
perfectly normal afternoon and twisted it until it 
looked like Edward was going out of his way to keep 
things from me. I needed therapy. 

We went downstairs to work on our homework, just in 
case Charlie showed up early. Edward finished in 
minutes; I slogged laboriously through my calculus 
until I decided it was time to fix Charlie’s dinner. 
Edward helped, making faces every so often at the 
raw ingredients — human food was mildly repulsive 
to him. I made stroganoff from Grandma Swan’s 
recipe, because I was sucking up. It wasn’t one of my 
favorites, but it would please Charlie. 

Charlie seemed to already be in a good mood when he 
got home. He didn’t even go out of his way to be rude 
to Edward. Edward excused himself from eating with 
us, as usual. The sound of the nightly news drifted 
from the front room, but I doubted Edward was really 
watching. 

After forcing down three helpings, Charlie kicked his 
feet up on the spare chair and folded his hands 
contentedly across his distended stomach. 

“That was great, Bells.” 

“I’m glad you liked it. How was work?” He’d been 
eating with too much concentration for me to make 
conversation before. 

53 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sort of slow. Well, dead slow really. Mark and I 
played cards for a good part of the afternoon,” he 
admitted with a grin. “I won, nineteen hands to seven. 
And then I was on the phone with Billy for a while.” 

I tried to keep my expression the same. “How is he?” 

“Good, good. His joints are bothering him a little.” 

“Oh. That’s too bad.” 

“Yeah. He invited us down to visit this weekend. He 
was thinking of having the Clearwaters and the Uleys 
over too. Sort of a playoff party... .” 

“Huh,” was my genius response. But what could I 
say? I knew I wouldn’t be allowed to hit a werewolf 
party, even with parental supervision. I wondered if 
Edward would have a problem with Charlie hanging 
out in La Push. Or would he suppose that, since 
Charlie was mostly spending time with Billy, who was 
only human, my father wouldn’t be in danger? 

I got up and piled the dishes together without looking 
at Charlie. I dumped them into the sink and started 
the water. Edward appeared silently and grabbed a 
dishtowel. 

Charlie sighed and gave up for the moment, though I 
imagined he would revisit the subject when we were 
alone again. He heaved himself to his feet and headed 
for the TV, just like every other night. 

“Charlie,” Edward said in a conversational tone. 

Charlie stopped in the middle of his little kitchen. 
“Yeah?” 



54 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Did Bella ever tell you that my parents gave her 
airplane tickets on her last birthday, so that she 
could visit Renee?” 

I dropped the plate I was scrubbing. It glanced off the 
counter and clattered noisily to the floor. It didn’t 
break, but it spattered the room, and all three of us, 
with soapy water. Charlie didn’t even seem to notice. 

“Bella?” he asked in a stunned voice. 

I kept my eyes on the plate as I retrieved it. “Yeah, 
they did.” 

Charlie swallowed loudly, and then his eyes narrowed 
as he turned back to Edward. “No, she never 
mentioned it.” 

“Hmm,” Edward murmured. 

“Was there a reason you brought it up?” Charlie 
asked in a hard voice. 

Edward shrugged. “They’re about to expire. I think it 
might hurt Esme’s feelings if Bella doesn’t use her 
gift. Not that she’d say anything.” 

I stared at Edward in disbelief. 

Charlie thought for a minute. “It’s probably a good 
idea for you to visit your mom, Bella. She’d love that. 
I’m surprised you didn’t say anything about this, 
though.” 

“I forgot,” I admitted. 

He frowned. “You forgot that someone gave you plane 
tickets?” 



55 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Mmm,” I murmured vaguely, and turned back to the 
sink. 

“I noticed that you said they’re about to expire, 
Edward,” Charlie went on. “How many tickets did 
your parents give her?” 

“Just one for her ... and one for me.” 

The plate I dropped this time landed in the sink, so it 
didn’t make as much noise. I could easily hear the 
sharp huff as my father exhaled. The blood rushed 
into my face, fueled by irritation and chagrin. Why 
was Edward doing this? I glared at the bubbles in the 
sink, panicking. 

“That’s out of the question!” Charlie was abruptly in a 
rage, shouting the words. 

“Why?” Edward asked, his voice saturated with 
innocent surprise. “You just said it was a good idea 
for her to see her mother.” 

Charlie ignored him. “You’re not going anywhere with 
him, young lady!” he yelled. I spun around and he 
was jabbing a finger at me. 

Anger pulsed through me automatically, an 
instinctive reaction to his tone. 

“I’m not a child, Dad. And I’m not grounded anymore, 
remember?” 

“Oh yes, you are. Starting now.” 

“For what?!” 

“Because I said so.” 



56 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do I need to remind you that I’m a legal adult, 
Charlie?” 



“This is my house — you follow my rules!” 

My glare turned icy. “If that’s how you want it. Do you 
want me to move out tonight? Or can I have a few 
days to pack?” 

Charlie’s face went bright red. I instantly felt horrible 
for playing the move-out card. 

I took a deep breath and tried to make my tone more 
reasonable. “I’ll do my time without complaining when 
I’ve done something wrong, Dad, but I’m not going to 
put up with your prejudices.” 

He sputtered, but managed nothing coherent. 

“Now, I know that you know that I have every right to 
see Mom for the weekend. You can’t honestly tell me 
you’d object to the plan if I was going with Alice or 
Angela.” 

“Girls,” he grunted, with a nod. 

“Would it bother you if I took Jacob?” 

I’d only picked the name because I knew of my 
father’s preference for Jacob, but I quickly wished I 
hadn’t; Edward’s teeth clenched together with an 
audible snap. 

My father struggled to compose himself before he 
answered. “Yes,” he said in an unconvincing voice. 
“That would bother me.” 

“You’re a rotten liar, Dad.” 



57 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella — ” 



“It’s not like I’m headed off to Vegas to be a showgirl 
or anything. I’m going to see Mom,” I reminded him. 
“She’s just as much my parental authority as you 
are.” 

He threw me a withering look. 

“Are you implying something about Mom’s ability to 
look after me?” 

Charlie flinched at the threat implicit in my question. 

“You’d better hope I don’t mention this to her,” I said. 

“You’d better not,” he warned. “I’m not happy about 
this, Bella.” 

“There’s no reason for you to be upset.” 

He rolled his eyes, but I could tell the storm was over. 

I turned to pull the plug out of the sink. “So my 
homework is done, your dinner is done, the dishes 
are done, and I’m not grounded. I’m going out. I’ll be 
back before ten-thirty.” 

“Where are you going?” His face, almost back to 
normal, flushed light red again. 

“I’m not sure,” I admitted. “I’ll keep it within a ten- 
mile radius, though. Okay?” 

He grunted something that did not sound like 
approval, and stalked out of the room. Naturally, as 
soon as I’d won the fight, I began to feel guilty. 



58 | Page 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“We’re going out?” Edward asked, his voice low but 
enthusiastic. 

I turned to glower at him. “Yes. I think I’d like to 
speak to you alone.” 

He didn’t look as apprehensive as I thought he 
should. 

I waited to begin until we were safely in his car. 
“What was that?” I demanded. 

“I know you want to see your mother, Bella — you’ve 
been talking about her in your sleep. Worrying 
actually.” 

“I have?” 

He nodded. “But, clearly, you were too much of a 
coward to deal with Charlie, so I interceded on your 
behalf.” 

“Interceded? You threw me to the sharks!” 

He rolled his eyes. “I don’t think you were in any 
danger.” 

“I told you I didn’t want to fight with Charlie.” 
“Nobody said that you had to.” 

I glowered at him. “I can’t help myself when he gets 
all bossy like that — my natural teenage instincts 
overpower me.” 

He chuckled. “Well, that’s not my fault.” 



59 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at him, speculating. He didn’t seem to notice. 
His face was serene as he gazed out the windshield. 
Something was off, but I couldn’t put my finger on it. 
Or maybe it was just my imagination again, running 
wild like it had this afternoon. 

“Does this sudden urge to see Florida have anything 
to do with the party at Billy’s place?” 

His jaw flexed. “Nothing at all. It wouldn’t matter if 
you were here or on the other side of the world, you 
still wouldn’t be going.” 

It was just like with Charlie before — just like being 
treated as a misbehaving child. I gritted my teeth 
together so I wouldn’t start shouting. I didn’t want to 
fight with Edward, too. 

Edward sighed, and when he spoke his voice was 
warm and velvet again. “So what do you want to do 
tonight?” he asked. 

“Can we go to your house? I haven’t seen Esme in so 
long.” 

He smiled. “She’ll like that. Especially when she hears 
what we’re doing this weekend.” 

I groaned in defeat. 

We didn’t stay out late, as I’d promised. I was not 
surprised to see the lights still on when we pulled up 
in front of the house — I knew Charlie would be 
waiting to yell at me some more. 

“You’d better not come inside,” I said. “It will only 
make things worse.” 



60 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“His thoughts are relatively calm,” Edward teased. His 
expression made me wonder if there was some 
additional joke I was missing. The corners of his 
mouth twitched, fighting a smile. 

“I’ll see you later,” I muttered glumly. 

He laughed and kissed the top of my head. “I’ll be 
back when Charlie’s snoring.” 

The TV was loud when I got inside. I briefly 
considered trying to sneak past him. 

“Could you come in here, Bella?” Charlie called, 
sinking that plan. 

My feet dragged as I took the five necessary steps. 
“What’s up, Dad?” 

“Did you have a nice time tonight?” he asked. He 
seemed ill at ease. I looked for hidden meanings in his 
words before I answered. 

“Yes,” I said hesitantly. 

“What did you do?” 

I shrugged. “Hung out with Alice and Jasper. Edward 
beat Alice at chess, and then I played Jasper. He 
buried me.” 

I smiled. Edward and Alice playing chess was one of 
the funniest things I’d ever seen. They’d sat there 
nearly motionless, staring at the board, while Alice 
foresaw the moves he would make and he picked the 
moves she would make in return out of her head. 

They played most of the game in their minds; I think 
they’d each moved two pawns when Alice suddenly 
61 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




flicked her king over and surrendered. It took all of 
three minutes. 

Charlie hit the mute button — an unusual action. 

“Look, there’s something I need to say.” He frowned, 
looking very uncomfortable. 

I sat still, waiting. He met my gaze for a second before 
shifting his eyes to the floor. He didn’t say anything 
more. 

“What is it, Dad?” 

He sighed. “I’m not good at this kind of thing. I don’t 
know how to start... .” 

I waited again. 

“Okay, Bella. Here’s the thing.” He got up from the 
couch and started pacing back and forth across the 
room, looking as his feet all the time. “You and 
Edward seem pretty serious, and there are some 
things that you need to be careful about. I know 
you’re an adult now, but you’re still young, Bella, and 
there are a lot of important things you need to know 
when you ... well, when you’re physically involved 
with — ” 

“Oh, please, please no!” I begged, jumping to my feet. 
“Please tell me you are not trying to have a sex talk 
with me, Charlie.” 

He glared at the floor. “I am your father. I have 
responsibilities. Remember, I’m just as embarrassed 
as you are.” 



62 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I don’t think that’s humanly possible. Anyway, Mom 
beat you to the punch about ten years ago. You’re off 
the hook.” 

“Ten years ago you didn’t have a boyfriend,” he 
muttered unwillingly. I could tell he was battling with 
his desire to drop the subject. We were both standing 
up, looking at the floor, and facing away from each 
other. 

“I don’t think the essentials have changed that 
much,” I mumbled, and my face had to be as red as 
his. This was beyond the seventh circle of Hades; 
even worse was realizing that Edward had known this 
was coming. No wonder he’d seemed so smug in the 
car. 

“Just tell me that you two are being responsible,” 
Charlie pled, obviously wishing a pit would open in 
the floor so that he could fall in. 

“Don’t worry about it, Dad, it’s not like that.” 

“Not that I don’t trust you, Bella, but I know you don’t 
want to tell me anything about this, and you know I 
don’t really want to hear it. I will try to be open- 
minded, though. I know the times have changed.” 

I laughed awkwardly. “Maybe the times have, but 
Edward is very old-fashioned. You have nothing to 
worry about.” 

Charlie sighed. “Sure he is,” he muttered. 

“Ugh!” I groaned. “I really wish you were not forcing 
me to say this out loud, Dad. Really. But ... I am a ... 
virgin, and I have no immediate plans to change that 
status.” 



63 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




We both cringed, but then Charlie’s face smoothed 
out. He seemed to believe me. 



“Can I go to bed, now? Please.” 

“In a minute,” he said. 

“Aw, please, Dad? I’m begging you.” 

“The embarrassing part’s over, I promise,” he assured 
me. 

I shot a glance at him, and was grateful to see that he 
looked more relaxed, that his face was back to its 
regular color. He sank down onto the sofa, sighing 
with relief that he was past the sex speech. 

“What now?” 

“I just wanted to know how the balance thing is 
coming along.” 

“Oh. Good, I guess. I made plans with Angela today. 
I’m going to help her with her graduation 
announcements. Just us girls.” 

“That’s nice. And what about Jake?” 

I sighed. “I haven’t figured that one out yet, Dad.” 

“Keep trying, Bella. I know you’ll do the right thing. 
You’re a good person.” 

Nice. So if I didn’t figure out some way to make things 
right with Jacob, then I was a bad person? That was 
below the belt. 

“Sure, sure,” I agreed. The automatic response almost 
made me smile — it was something I’d picked up from 

64 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob. I even said it in the same patronizing tone he 
used with his own father. 



Charlie grinned and turned the sound back on. He 
slumped lower into the cushions, pleased with his 
night’s work. I could tell he would be up with the 
game for a while. 

“’Night, Bells.” 

“See you in the morning!” I sprinted for the stairs. 

Edward was long gone and he wouldn’t be back until 
Charlie was asleep — he was probably out hunting or 
something to pass the time — so I was in no hurry to 
undress for bed. I wasn’t in the mood to be alone, but 
I certainly wasn’t going to go back downstairs to hang 
out with my Dad, just in case he thought of some 
topic of sex education that he hadn’t touched on 
before; I shuddered. 

So, thanks to Charlie, I was wound up and anxious. 
My homework was done and I didn’t feel mellow 
enough for reading or just listening to music. I 
considered calling Renee with the news of my visit, 
but then I realized that it was three hours later in 
Florida, and she would be asleep. 

I could call Angela, I supposed. 

But suddenly I knew that it wasn’t Angela that I 
wanted to talk to. That I needed to talk to. 

I stared at the blank black window, biting my lip. I 
don’t know how long I stood there weighing the pros 
against the cons — doing the right thing by Jacob, 
seeing my closest friend again, being a good person, 
versus making Edward furious with me. Ten minutes 
maybe. Long enough to decide that the pros were 
65 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




valid while the cons were not. Edward was only 
concerned about my safety, and I knew that there was 
really no problem on that count. 

The phone wasn’t any help; Jacob had refused to 
answer my phone calls since Edward’s return. 

Besides, I needed to see him — see him smiling again 
the way he used to. I needed to replace that awful last 
memory of his face warped and twisted by pain if I 
was ever going to have any peace of mind. 

I had an hour probably. I could make a quick run 
down to La Push and be back before Edward realized 
I had gone. It was past my curfew, but would Charlie 
really care about that when Edward wasn’t involved? 
One way to find out. 

I grabbed my jacket and shoved my arms through the 
sleeves as I ran down the stairs. 

Charlie looked up from the game, instantly 
suspicious. 

“You care if I go see Jake tonight?” I asked 
breathlessly. “I won’t stay long.” 

As soon as I said Jake’s name, Charlie’s expression 
relaxed into a smug smile. He didn’t seem surprised 
at all that his lecture had taken effect so quickly. 
“Sure, kid. No problem. Stay as long as you like.” 

“Thanks, Dad,” I said as I darted out the door. 

Like any fugitive, I couldn’t help looking over my 
shoulder a few times while I jogged to my truck, but 
the night was so black that there really was no point. 

I had to feel my way along the side of the truck to the 
handle. 



66 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




My eyes were just beginning to adjust as I shoved my 
keys in the ignition. I twisted them hard to the left, 
but instead of roaring deafeningly to life, the engine 
just clicked. I tried it again with the same results. 

And then a small motion in my peripheral vision 
made me jump. 

“Gah!” I gasped in shock when I saw that I was not 
alone in the cab. 

Edward sat very still, a faint bright spot in the 
darkness, only his hands moving as he turned a 
mysterious black object around and around. He 
stared at the object as he spoke. 

“Alice called,” he murmured. 

Alice! Damn. I’d forgotten to account for her in my 
plans. He must have her watching me. 

“She got nervous when your future rather abruptly 
disappeared five minutes ago.” 

My eyes, already wide with surprise, popped wider. 

“Because she can’t see the wolves, you know,” he 
explained in the same low murmur. “Had you 
forgotten that? When you decide to mingle your fate 
with theirs, you disappear, too. You couldn’t know 
that part, I realize that. But can you understand why 
that might make me a little . . . anxious? Alice saw you 
disappear, and she couldn’t even tell if you’d come 
home or not. Your future got lost, just like theirs. 

“We’re not sure why this is. Some natural defense 
they’re born with?” He spoke as if he were talking to 
himself now, still looking at the piece of my truck’s 
engine as he twirled it in his hands. “That doesn’t 

67 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




seem entirely likely, since I haven’t had any trouble 
reading their thoughts. The Blacks’ at least. Carlisle 
theorizes that it’s because their lives are so ruled by 
their transformations. It’s more an involuntary 
reaction than a decision. Utterly unpredictable, and it 
changes everything about them. In that instant when 
they shift from one form to the other, they don’t really 
even exist. The future can’t hold them... .” 

I listened to his musing in stony silence. 

“I’ll put your car back together in time for school, in 
case you’d like to drive yourself,” he assured me after 
a minute. 

With my lips mashed together, I retrieved my keys 
and stiffly climbed out of the truck. 

“Shut your window if you want me to stay away 
tonight. I’ll understand,” he whispered just before I 
slammed the door. 

I stomped into the house, slamming that door, too. 
“What’s wrong?” Charlie demanded from the couch. 
“Truck won’t start,” I growled. 

“Want me to look at it?” 

“No. I’ll try it in the morning.” 

“Want to use my car?” 

I wasn’t supposed to drive his police cruiser. Charlie 
must be really desperate to get me to La Push. Nearly 
as desperate as I was. 

“No. I’m tired,” I grumbled. “’Night.” 

68 | Page Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stamped my way up the stairs, and went straight to 
my window. I shoved the metal frame roughly — it 
crashed shut and the glass trembled. 

I stared at the shivering black glass for a long 
moment, until it was still. Then I sighed, and opened 
the window as wide as it would go. 



69 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





The sun was so deeply buried behind the clouds that 
there was no way to tell if it had set or not. After the 
long flight — chasing the sun westward so that it 
seemed unmoving in the sky — it was especially 
disorienting; time seemed oddly variable. It took me 
by surprise when the forest gave way to the first 
buildings, signaling that we were nearly home. 

“You’ve been very quiet,” Edward observed. “Did the 
plane make you sick?” 

“No, I’m okay.” 

“Are you sad to leave?” 

“More relieved than sad, I think.” 

He raised one eyebrow at me. I knew it was useless 
and — much as I hated to admit it — unnecessary to 
ask him to keep his eyes on the road. 

“Renee is so much more ... perceptive than Charlie in 
some ways. It was making me jumpy.” 

Edward laughed. “Your mother has a very interesting 
mind. Almost childlike, but very insightful. She sees 
things differently than other people.” 

Insightful. It was a good description of my mother — 
when she was paying attention. Most of the time 
Renee was so bewildered by her own life that she 
didn’t notice much else. But this weekend she’d been 
paying plenty of attention to me. 



70 | Page 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



Phil was busy — the high school baseball team he 
coached was in the playoffs — and being alone with 
Edward and me had only sharpened Renee’s focus. As 
soon as the hugs and squeals of delight were out of 
the way, Renee began to watch. And as she’d 
watched, her wide blue eyes had become first 
confused and then concerned. 

This morning we’d gone for a walk along the beach. 
She wanted to show off all the beauties of her new 
home, still hoping, I think, that the sun might lure 
me away from Forks. She’d also wanted to talk with 
me alone, and that was easily arranged. Edward had 
fabricated a term paper to give himself an excuse to 
stay indoors during the day. 

In my head, I went through the conversation again... . 

Renee and I ambled along the sidewalk, trying to stay 
in the range of the infrequent palm tree shadows. 
Though it was early, the heat was smothering. The air 
was so heavy with moisture that just breathing in and 
out was giving my lungs a workout. 

“Bella?” my mother asked, looking out past the sand 
to the lightly crashing waves as she spoke. 

“What is it, Mom?” 

She sighed, not meeting my gaze. “I’m worried... .” 

“What’s wrong?” I asked, anxious at once. “What can I 
do?” 

“It’s not me.” She shook her head. “I’m worried about 
you ... and Edward.” 

Renee finally looked at me when she said his name, 
her face apologetic. 

71 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh,” I mumbled, fixing my eyes on a pair of joggers 
as they passed us, drenched with sweat. 



“You two are more serious than I’d been thinking,” 
she went on. 

I frowned, quickly reviewing the last two days in my 
head. Edward and I had barely touched — in front of 
her, at least. I wondered if Renee was about to give 
me a lecture on responsibility, too. I didn’t mind that 
the way I had with Charlie. It wasn’t embarrassing 
with my mom. After all, I’d been the one giving her 
that lecture time and time again in the last ten years. 

“There’s something ... strange about the way you two 
are together,” she murmured, her forehead creasing 
over her troubled eyes. “The way he watches you — 
it’s so ... protective. Like he’s about to throw himself 
in front of a bullet to save you or something.” 

I laughed, though I was still not able to meet her gaze. 
“That’s a bad thing?” 

“No.” She frowned as she struggled for the words. “It’s 
just different. He’s very intense about you ... and very 
careful. I feel like I don’t really understand your 
relationship. Like there’s some secret I’m missing... .” 

“I think you’re imagining things, Mom,” I said quickly, 
struggling to keep my voice light. There was a flutter 
in my stomach. I’d forgotten how much my mother 
saw. Something about her simple view of the world 
cut through all the distractions and pierced right to 
the truth of things. This had never been a problem 
before. Until now, there had never been a secret I 
couldn’t tell her. 

“It’s not just him.” She set her lips defensively. “I wish 
you could see how you move around him.” 

72 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What do you mean?” 



“The way you move — you orient yourself around him 
without even thinking about it. When he moves, even 
a little bit, you adjust your position at the same time. 
Like magnets ... or gravity. You’re like a ... satellite, or 
something. I’ve never seen anything like it.” 

She pursed her lips and stared down. 

“Don’t tell me,” I teased, forcing a smile. “You’re 
reading mysteries again, aren’t you? Or is it sci-fi this 
time?” 

Renee flushed a delicate pink. “That’s beside the 
point.” 

“Found anything good?” 

“Well, there was one — but that doesn’t matter. We’re 
talking about you right now.” 

“You should stick to romance, Mom. You know how 
you freak yourself out.” 

Her lips turned up at the corners. “I’m being silly, 
aren’t I?” 

For half a second I couldn’t answer. Renee was so 
easily swayed. Sometimes it was a good thing, 
because not all of her ideas were practical. But it 
pained me to see how quickly she caved in to my 
trivializing, especially since she was dead right this 
time. 

She looked up, and I controlled my expression. 

“Not silly — just being a mom.” 



73 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




She laughed and then gestured grandly toward the 
white sands stretching to the blue water. 

“And all this isn’t enough to get you to move back in 
with your silly mom?” 

I wiped my hand dramatically across my forehead, 
and then pretended to wring my hair out. 

“You get used to the humidity,” she promised. 

“You can get used to rain, too,” I countered. 

She elbowed me playfully and then took my hand as 
we walked back to her car. 

Other than her worries about me, she seemed happy 
enough. Content. She still looked at Phil with goo-goo 
eyes, and that was comforting. Surely her life was full 
and satisfying. Surely she didn’t miss me that much, 
even now... . 

Edward’s icy fingers brushed my cheek. I looked up, 
blinking, coming back to the present. He leaned down 
and kissed my forehead. 

“We’re home, Sleeping Beauty. Time to awake.” 

We were stopped in front of Charlie’s house. The 
porch light was on and the cruiser was parked in the 
driveway. As I examined the house, I saw the curtain 
twitch in the living room window, flashing a line of 
yellow light across the dark lawn. 

I sighed. Of course Charlie was waiting to pounce. 

Edward must have been thinking the same thing, 
because his expression was stiff and his eyes remote 
as he came to get my door for me. 

74 | Page 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“How bad?” I asked. 



“Charlie’s not going to be difficult,” Edward promised, 
his voice level with no hint of humor. “He missed 
you.” 

My eyes narrowed in doubt. If that was the case, then 
why was Edward tensed as if for a battle? 

My bag was small, but he insisted on carrying it into 
the house. Charlie held the door open for us. 

“Welcome home, kid!” Charlie shouted like he really 
meant it. “How was Jacksonville?” 

“Moist. And buggy.” 

“So Renee didn’t sell you on the University of 
Florida?” 

“She tried. But I’d rather drink water than inhale it.” 

Charlie’s eyes flickered unwillingly to Edward. “Did 
you have a nice time?” 

“Yes,” Edward answered in a serene voice. “Renee was 
very hospitable.” 

“That’s ... um, good. Glad you had fun.” Charlie 
turned away from Edward and pulled me in for an 
unexpected hug. 

“Impressive,” I whispered in his ear. 

He rumbled a laugh. “I really missed you, Bells. The 
food around here sucks when you’re gone.” 

“I’ll get on it,” I said as he let me go. 



75 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Would you call Jacob first? He’s been bugging me 
every five minutes since six o’clock this morning. I 
promised I’d have you call him before you even 
unpacked.” 

I didn’t have to look at Edward to feel that he was too 
still, too cold beside me. So this was the cause of his 
tension. 

“Jacob wants to talk to me?” 

“Pretty bad, I’d say. He wouldn’t tell me what it was 
about — just said it was important.” 

The phone rang then, shrill and demanding. 

“That’s him again, I’d bet my next paycheck,” Charlie 
muttered. 

“I got it.” I hurried to the kitchen. 

Edward followed after me while Charlie disappeared 
into the living room. 

I grabbed the phone mid-ring, and twisted around so 
that I was facing the wall. “Hello?” 

“You’re back,” Jacob said. 

His familiar husky voice sent a wave of wistfulness 
through me. A thousand memories spun in my head, 
tangling together — a rocky beach strewn with 
driftwood trees, a garage made of plastic sheds, warm 
sodas in a paper bag, a tiny room with one too-small 
shabby loveseat. The laughter in his deep-set black 
eyes, the feverish heat of his big hand around mine, 
the flash of his white teeth against his dark skin, his 
face stretching into the wide smile that had always 



76 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




been like a key to a secret door where only kindred 
spirits could enter. 

It felt sort of like homesickness, this longing for the 
place and person who had sheltered me through my 
darkest night. 

I cleared the lump from my throat. “Yes,” I answered. 

“Why didn’t you call me?” Jacob demanded. 

His angry tone instantly got my back up. “Because 
I’ve been in the house for exactly four seconds and 
your call interrupted Charlie telling me that you’d 
called.” 

“Oh. Sorry.” 

“Sure. Now, why are you harassing Charlie?” 

“I need to talk to you.” 

“Yeah, I figured out that part all by myself. Go ahead.” 

There was a short pause. 

“You going to school tomorrow?” 

I frowned to myself, unable to make sense of this 
question. “Of course I am. Why wouldn’t I?” 

“I dunno. Just curious.” 

Another pause. 

“So what did you want to talk about, Jake?” 

He hesitated. “Nothing really, I guess. I ... wanted to 
hear your voice.” 

77 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah, I know. I’m so glad you called me, Jake. I ...” 
But I didn’t know what more to say. I wanted to tell 
him I was on my way to La Push right now. And I 
couldn’t tell him that. 

“I have to go,” he said abruptly. 

“What?” 

“I’ll talk to you soon, okay?” 

“But Jake — ” 

He was already gone. I listened to the dial tone with 
disbelief. 

“That was short,” I muttered. 

“Is everything all right?” Edward asked. His voice was 
low and careful. 

I turned slowly to face him. His expression was 
perfectly smooth — impossible to read. 

“I don’t know. I wonder what that was about.” It 
didn’t make sense that Jacob had been hounding 
Charlie all day just to ask me if I was going to school. 
And if he’d wanted to hear my voice, then why did he 
hang up so quickly? 

“Your guess is probably better than mine,” Edward 
said, the hint of a smile tugging at the corner of his 
mouth. 

“Mmm,” I murmured. That was true. I knew Jake 
inside and out. It shouldn’t be that complicated to 
figure out his motivations. 



78 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




With my thoughts miles away — about fifteen miles 
away, up the road to La Push — I started combing 
through the fridge, assembling ingredients for 
Charlie’s dinner. Edward leaned against the counter, 
and I was distantly aware that his eyes were on my 
face, but too preoccupied to worry about what he saw 
there. 

The school thing seemed like the key to me. That was 
the only real question Jake had asked. And he had to 
be after an answer to something, or he wouldn’t have 
been bugging Charlie so persistently. 

Why would my attendance record matter to him, 
though? 

I tried to think about it in a logical way. So, if I hadn’t 
been going to school tomorrow, what would be the 
problem with that, from Jacob’s perspective? Charlie 
had given me a little grief about missing a day of 
school so close to finals, but I’d convinced him that 
one Friday wasn’t going to derail my studies. Jake 
would hardly care about that. 

My brain refused to come up with any brilliant 
insights. Maybe I was missing some vital piece of 
information. 

What could have changed in the past three days that 
was so important that Jacob would break his long 
streak of refusing to answer my phone calls and 
contact me? What difference could three days make? 

I froze in the middle of the kitchen. The package of icy 
hamburger in my hands slipped through my numb 
fingers. It took me a slow second to miss the thud it 
should have made against the floor. 



79 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward had caught it and thrown it onto the counter. 
His arms were already around me, his lips at my ear. 

“What’s wrong?” 

I shook my head, dazed. 

Three days could change everything. 

Hadn’t I just been thinking about how impossible 
college was? How I couldn’t be anywhere near people 
after I’d gone through the painful three-day 
conversion that would set me free from mortality, so 
that I could spend eternity with Edward? The 
conversion that would make me forever a prisoner to 
my own thirst... . 

Had Charlie told Billy that I’d vanished for three 
days? Had Billy jumped to conclusions? Had Jacob 
really been asking me if I was still human? Making 
sure that the werewolves’ treaty was unbroken — that 
none of the Cullens had dared to bite a human . . . 
bite, not kill ... ? 

But did he honestly think I would come home to 
Charlie if that was the case? 

Edward shook me. “Bella?” he asked, truly anxious 
now. 

“I think ... I think he was checking,” I mumbled. 
“Checking to make sure. That I’m human, I mean.” 

Edward stiffened, and a low hiss sounded in my ear. 

“Well have to leave,” I whispered. “Before. So that it 
doesn’t break the treaty. We won’t ever be able to 
come back.” 



80 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His arms tightened around me. “I know.” 

“Ahem.” Charlie cleared his voice loudly behind us. 

I jumped, and then pulled free of Edward’s arms, my 
face getting hot. Edward leaned back against the 
counter. His eyes were tight. I could see worry in 
them, and anger. 

“If you don’t want to make dinner, I can call for a 
pizza,” Charlie hinted. 

“No, that’s okay, I’m already started.” 

“Okay,” Charlie said. He propped himself against the 
doorframe, folding his arms. 

I sighed and got to work, trying to ignore my 
audience. 

“If I asked you to do something, would you trust me?” 
Edward asked, an edge to his soft voice. 

We were almost to school. Edward had been relaxed 
and joking just a moment ago, and now suddenly his 
hands were clenched tight on the steering wheel, his 
knuckles straining in an effort not to snap it into 
pieces. 

I stared at his anxious expression — his eyes were far 
away, like he was listening to distant voices. 

My pulse sped in response to his stress, but I 
answered carefully. “That depends.” 

We pulled into the school lot. 

“I was afraid you would say that.” 



81 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What do you want me to do, Edward?” 

“I want you to stay in the car.” He pulled into his 
usual spot and turned the engine off as he spoke. “I 
want you to wait here until I come back for you.” 

“But ... why?” 

That was when I saw him. He would have been hard 
to miss, towering over the students the way he did, 
even if he hadn’t been leaning against his black 
motorcycle, parked illegally on the sidewalk. 

“Oh.” 

Jacob’s face was a calm mask that I recognized well. 

It was the face he used when he was determined to 
keep his emotions in check, to keep himself under 
control. It made him look like Sam, the oldest of the 
wolves, the leader of the Quileute pack. But Jacob 
could never quite manage the perfect serenity Sam 
always exuded. 

I’d forgotten how much this face bothered me. Though 
I’d gotten to know Sam pretty well before the Cullens 
had come back — to like him, even — I’d never been 
able to completely shake the resentment I felt when 
Jacob mimicked Sam’s expression. It was a stranger’s 
face. He wasn’t my Jacob when he wore it. 

“You jumped to the wrong conclusion last night,” 
Edward murmured. “He asked about school because 
he knew that I would be where you were. He was 
looking for a safe place to talk to me. A place with 
witnesses.” 

So I’d misinterpreted Jacob’s motives last night. 
Missing information, that was the problem. 



82 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Information like why in the world Jacob would want 
to talk to Edward. 

“I’m not staying in the car,” I said. 

Edward groaned quietly. “Of course not. Well, let’s get 
this over with.” 

Jacob’s face hardened as we walked toward him, 
hand in hand. 

I noticed other faces, too — the faces of my 
classmates. I noticed how their eyes widened as they 
took in all six foot seven inches of Jacob’s long body, 
muscled up the way no normal sixteen-and-a-half- 
year-old ever had been. I saw those eyes rake over his 
tight black t-shirt — short-sleeved, though the day 
was unseasonably cool — his ragged, grease-smeared 
jeans, and the glossy black bike he leaned against. 
Their eyes didn’t linger on his face — something 
about his expression had them glancing quickly away. 
And I noticed the wide berth everyone gave him, the 
bubble of space that no one dared to encroach on. 

With a sense of astonishment, I realized that Jacob 
looked dangerous to them. How odd. 

Edward stopped a few yards away from Jacob, and I 
could tell that he was uncomfortable having me so 
close to a werewolf. He drew his hand back slightly, 
pulling me halfway behind his body. 

“You could have called us,” Edward said in a steel- 
hard voice. 

“Sorry,” Jacob answered, his face twisting into a 
sneer. “I don’t have any leeches on my speed dial.” 



83 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You could have reached me at Bella’s house, of 
course.” 

Jacob’s jaw flexed, and his brows pulled together. He 
didn’t answer. 

“This is hardly the place, Jacob. Could we discuss 
this later?” 

“Sure, sure. I’ll stop by your crypt after school.” Jacob 
snorted. “What’s wrong with now?” 

Edward looked around pointedly, his eyes resting on 
the witnesses who were just barely out of hearing 
range. A few people were hesitating on the sidewalk, 
their eyes bright with expectation. Like they were 
hoping a fight might break out to alleviate the tedium 
of another Monday morning. I saw Tyler Crowley 
nudge Austin Marks, and they both paused on their 
way to class. 

“I already know what you came to say,” Edward 
reminded Jacob in voice so low that I could barely 
make it out. “Message delivered. Consider us 
warned.” 

Edward glanced down at me for a fleeting second with 
worried eyes. 

“Warned?” I asked blankly. “What are you talking 
about?” 

“You didn’t tell her?” Jacob asked, his eyes widening 
with disbelief. “What, were you afraid she’d take our 
side?” 

“Please drop it, Jacob,” Edward said in an even voice. 

“Why?” Jacob challenged. 

84 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I frowned in confusion. “What don’t I know? Edward?” 



Edward just glared at Jacob as if he hadn’t heard me. 
“Jake?” 

Jacob raised his eyebrow at me. “He didn’t tell you 
that his big . . . brother crossed the line Saturday 
night?” he asked, his tone thickly layered with 
sarcasm. Then his eyes flickered back to Edward. 
“Paul was totally justified in — ” 

“It was no-man’s land!” Edward hissed. 

“Was not!” 

Jacob was fuming visibly. His hands trembled. He 
shook his head and sucked in two deep lungfuls of 
air. 

“Emmett and Paul?” I whispered. Paul was Jacob’s 
most volatile pack brother. He was the one who’d lost 
control that day in the woods — the memory of the 
snarling gray wolf was suddenly vivid in my head. 
“What happened? Were they fighting?” My voice 
strained higher in panic. “Why? Did Paul get hurt?” 

“No one fought,” Edward said quietly, only to me. “No 
one got hurt. Don’t be anxious.” 

Jacob was staring at us with incredulous eyes. “You 
didn’t tell her anything at all, did you? Is that why 
you took her away? So she wouldn’t know that — ?” 

“Leave now.” Edward cut him off mid-sentence, and 
his face was abruptly frightening — truly frightening. 
For a second, he looked like ... like a vampire. He 
glared at Jacob with vicious, unveiled loathing. 



85 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob raised his eyebrows, but made no other move. 
“Why haven’t you told her?” 

They faced each other in silence for a long moment. 
More students gathered behind Tyler and Austin. I 
saw Mike next to Ben — Mike had one hand on Ben’s 
shoulder, like he was holding him in place. 

In the dead silence, all the details suddenly fell into 
place for me with a burst of intuition. 

Something Edward didn’t want me to know. 

Something that Jacob wouldn’t have kept from me. 

Something that had the Cullens and the wolves both 
in the woods, moving in hazardous proximity to each 
other. 

Something that would cause Edward to insist that I 
fly across the country. 

Something that Alice had seen in a vision last week — 
a vision Edward had lied to me about. 

Something I’d been waiting for anyway. Something I 
knew would happen again, as much as I might wish it 
never would. It was never going to end, was it? 

I heard the quick gasp, gasp, gasp, gasp of the air 
dragging through my lips, but I couldn’t stop it. It 
looked like the school was shaking, like there was an 
earthquake, but I knew it was my own trembling that 
caused the illusion. 

“She came back for me,” I choked out. 

Victoria was never going to give up till I was dead. She 
would keep repeating the same pattern — feint and 

86 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




run, feint and run — until she found a hole through 
my defenders. 

Maybe I’d get lucky. Maybe the Volturi would come for 
me first — they’d kill me quicker, at least. 

Edward held me tight to his side, angling his body so 
that he was still between me and Jacob, and stroked 
my face with anxious hands. “It’s fine,” he whispered 
to me. “It’s fine. I’ll never let her get close to you, it’s 
fine.” 

Then he glared at Jacob. “Does that answer your 
question, mongrel?” 

“You don’t think Bella has a right to know?” Jacob 
challenged. “It’s her life.” 

Edward kept his voice muted; even Tyler, edging 
forward by inches, would be unable to hear. “Why 
should she be frightened when she was never in 
danger?” 

“Better frightened than lied to.” 

I tried to pull myself together, but my eyes were 
swimming in moisture. I could see it behind my lids 
— I could see Victoria’s face, her lips pulled back over 
her teeth, her crimson eyes glowing with the 
obsession of her vendetta; she held Edward 
responsible for the demise of her love, James. She 
wouldn’t stop until his love was taken from him, too. 

Edward wiped the tears from my cheek with his 
fingertips. 

“Do you really think hurting her is better than 
protecting her?” he murmured. 



87 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“She’s tougher than you think,” Jacob said. “And 
she’s been through worse.” 

Abruptly, Jacob’s expression shifted, and he was 
staring at Edward with an odd, speculative 
expression. His eyes narrowed like he was trying to do 
a difficult math problem in his head. 

I felt Edward cringe. I glanced up at him, and his face 
was contorted in what could only be pain. For one 
ghastly moment, I was reminded of our afternoon in 
Italy, in the macabre tower room of the Volturi, where 
Jane had tortured Edward with her malignant gift, 
burning him with her thoughts alone... . 

The memory snapped me out of my near hysteria and 
put everything in perspective. Because I’d rather 
Victoria killed me a hundred times over than watch 
Edward suffer that way again. 

“That’s funny,” Jacob said, laughing as he watched 
Edward’s face. 

Edward winced, but smoothed his expression with a 
little effort. He couldn’t quite hide the agony in his 
eyes. 

I glanced, wide-eyed, from Edward’s grimace to 
Jacob’s sneer. 

“What are you doing to him?” I demanded. 

“It’s nothing, Bella,” Edward told me quietly. “Jacob 
just has a good memory, that’s all.” 

Jacob grinned, and Edward winced again. 

“Stop it! Whatever you’re doing.” 



88 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sure, if you want.” Jacob shrugged. “It’s his own 
fault if he doesn’t like the things I remember, 
though.” 

I glared at him, and he smiled back impishly — like a 
kid caught doing something he knows he shouldn’t by 
someone who he knows won’t punish him. 

“The principal’s on his way to discourage loitering on 
school property,” Edward murmured to me. “Let’s get 
to English, Bella, so you’re not involved.” 

“Overprotective, isn’t he?” Jacob said, talking just to 
me. “A little trouble makes life fun. Let me guess, 
you’re not allowed to have fun, are you?” 

Edward glowered, and his lips pulled back from his 
teeth ever so slightly. 

“Shut up, Jake,” I said. 

Jacob laughed. “That sounds like a no. Hey, if you 
ever feel like having a life again, you could come see 
me. I’ve still got your motorcycle in my garage.” 

This news distracted me. “You were supposed to sell 
that. You promised Charlie you would.” If I hadn’t 
begged on Jake’s behalf — after all, he’d put weeks of 
labor into both motorcycles, and he deserved some 
kind of payback — Charlie would have thrown my 
bike in a Dumpster. And possibly set that Dumpster 
on fire. 

“Yeah, right. Like I would do that. It belongs to you, 
not me. Anyway, I’ll hold on to it until you want it 
back.” 

A tiny hint of the smile I remembered was suddenly 
playing around the edges of his lips. 

89 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jake ...” 



He leaned forward, his face earnest now, the bitter 
sarcasm fading. “I think I might have been wrong 
before, you know, about not being able to be friends. 
Maybe we could manage it, on my side of the line. 
Come see me.” 

I was vividly conscious of Edward, his arms still 
wrapped protectively around me, motionless as a 
stone. I shot a look at his face — it was calm, patient. 

“I, er, don’t know about that, Jake.” 

Jacob dropped the antagonistic fapade completely. It 
was like he’d forgotten Edward was there, or at least 
he was determined to act that way. “I miss you every 
day, Bella. It’s not the same without you.” 

“I know and I’m sorry, Jake, I just ...” 

He shook his head, and sighed. “I know. Doesn’t 
matter, right? I guess I’ll survive or something. Who 
needs friends?” He grimaced, trying to cover the pain 
with a thin attempt at bravado. 

Jacob’s suffering had always triggered my protective 
side. It was not entirely rational — Jacob was hardly 
in need of any physical protection I could offer. But 
my arms, pinned beneath Edward’s, yearned to reach 
out to him. To wrap around his big, warm waist in a 
silent promise of acceptance and comfort. 

Edward’s shielding arms had become restraints. 

“Okay, get to class,” a stern voice sounded behind us. 
“Move along, Mr. Crowley.” 



90 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Get to school, Jake,” I whispered, anxious as soon as 
I recognized the principal’s voice. Jacob went to the 
Quileute school, but he might still get in trouble for 
trespassing or the equivalent. 

Edward released me, taking just my hand and pulling 
me behind his body again. 

Mr. Greene pushed through the circle of spectators, 
his brows pressing down like ominous storm clouds 
over his small eyes. 

“I mean it,” he was threatening. “Detention for anyone 
who’s still standing here when I turn around again.” 

The audience melted away before he was finished 
with his sentence. 

“Ah, Mr. Cullen. Do we have a problem here?” 

“Not at all, Mr. Greene. We were just on our way to 
class.” 

“Excellent. I don’t seem to recognize your friend.” Mr. 
Greene turned his glower on Jacob. “Are you a new 
student here?” 

Mr. Greene’s eyes scrutinized Jacob, and I could see 
that he’d come to the same conclusion everyone else 
had: dangerous. A troublemaker. 

“Nope,” Jacob answered, half a smirk on his broad 
lips. 

“Then I suggest you remove yourself from school 
property at once, young man, before I call the police.” 

Jacob’s little smirk became a full-blown grin, and I 
knew he was picturing Charlie showing up to arrest 

91 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




him. This grin was too bitter, too full of mocking to 
satisfy me. This wasn’t the smile I’d been waiting to 
see. 

Jacob said, “Yes, sir,” and snapped a military salute 
before he climbed on his bike and kicked it to a start 
right there on the sidewalk. The engine snarled and 
then the tires squealed as he spun it sharply around. 
In a matter of seconds, Jacob raced out of sight. 

Mr. Greene gnashed his teeth together while he 
watched the performance. 

“Mr. Cullen, I expect you to ask your friend to refrain 
from trespassing again.” 

“He’s no friend of mine, Mr. Greene, but I’ll pass along 
the warning.” 

Mr. Greene pursed his lips. Edward’s perfect grades 
and spotless record were clearly a factor in Mr. 
Greene’s assessment of the incident. “I see. If you’re 
worried about any trouble, I’d be happy to — ” 

“There’s nothing to worry about, Mr. Greene. There 
won’t be any trouble.” 

“I hope that’s correct. Well, then. On to class. You, 
too, Miss Swan.” 

Edward nodded, and pulled me quickly along toward 
the English building. 

“Do you feel well enough to go to class?” he whispered 
when we were past the principal. 

“Yes,” I whispered back, not quite sure if this was a 
lie. 



92 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Whether I felt well or not was hardly the most 
important consideration. I needed to talk to Edward 
right away, and English class wasn’t the ideal place 
for the conversation I had in mind. 



But with Mr. Greene right behind us, there weren’t a 
lot of other options. 

We got to class a little late and took our seats quickly. 
Mr. Berty was reciting a Frost poem. He ignored our 
entrance, refusing to let us break his rhythm. 



I yanked a blank page out of my notebook and started 
writing, my handwriting more illegible than normal 
thanks to my agitation. 



J<? fell Av\t. 






t(U 



I shoved the note at Edward. He sighed, and then 
began writing. It took him less time than me, though 
he wrote an entire paragraph in his own personal 
calligraphy before he slipped the paper back. 



93 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jftice saw that Uicforia was comirg back. J' took you outyjf 
town merely as a precaution - there was never a chance that 
she would have gotten anyiohere close to you. Cmmeti and 
^Jasper very nearly had her , but Victoria seems to have some 
instinetjor evasion. fhe escaped right down the Quileufe 
boundary line asjf she were readirgitfrom a map. Jt didn t 
help thal^/Ilicc s abilities were nidified by the Quiteufes 
involvement. Rfo bejair, the Quileutes might have had her , too , 
if we hadn t gotten in the way.ffie biggray one thoighf 
Smmett was over the line, and he got defensive. Gf course 
^Rosalie reacted to that, and everyvnefef the chase to protect 
their companions. Carhsle and c Jasper got things calmed down 
hforc it got oidof hand. Rut by therj, Uicforia had slipped 
y.Rfiat s everything. 



awa 



I frowned at the letters on the page. All of them had 
been in on it — Emmett, Jasper, Alice, Rosalie, and 
Carlisle. Maybe even Esme, though he hadn’t 
mentioned her. And then Paul and the rest of the 
Quileute pack. It might so easily have turned into a 
fight, pitting my future family and my old friends 
against each other. Any one of them could have been 
hurt. I imagined the wolves would be in the most 
danger, but picturing tiny Alice next to one of the 
huge werewolves, fighting ... 

I shuddered. 

Carefully, I scrubbed out the entire paragraph with 
my eraser and then I wrote over the top: 



94 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




MfLt (LUllz? % /klCa A^tcX iiw. 



Edward was shaking his head before I finished, 
obviously going to downplay any danger on Charlie’s 
behalf. He held a hand out, but I ignored that and 
started again. 



/' 



.V k 



<LAK r KaWV t(U ^ 

♦u. U*€AtA ViUe. n u^a. UAJ ft. 



tA. 



He took the paper from underneath my hand. 



J wasn f about to send piiijjjJ^ahnc. With your luck, not even 
the black box, would survive. 



That wasn’t what I’d meant at all; I hadn’t thought of 
going without him. I’d meant that we should have 
stayed here together. But I was sidetracked by his 
response, and a little miffed. Like I couldn’t fly cross 
country without bringing the plane down. Very funny. 



5 * (tt f lyaJ^ (ueA eAAj^. ^(aac. 

tA.Aej{<f <f*u. 4 * *Jy+**t It? 



IdJhy is the plane crashmp? 

He was trying to hide a smile now. 

i (&■ ftXC. *ut 

(Sasy.j/ djjy the plane 



95 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Of course. I pursed my lips and tried again. 



LK a. 



HaJK. <LlJ( U»C K«. (J*( ( CK<jf 

<^tA tii ^jmAa( CAxt - ^.. 



jZ d waif fill we were chse enouyfi fc the ground, get a good (yip 
on you, kick out the wad, and jump. fficndJ d n/n you back to 
the sceneoj- the accident, and we d stumble around like the two 
luckiest survivors m history. 



I stared at him wordlessly. 

“What?” he whispered. 

I shook my head in awe. “Nothing,” I mouthed. 

I scrubbed out the disconcerting conversation and 
wrote one more line. 



^/»u. well te(( 



AWC tlAV*C- 



I knew there would be a next time. The pattern would 
continue until someone lost. 

Edward stared into my eyes for a long moment. I 
wondered what my face looked like — it felt cold, so 
the blood hadn’t returned to my cheeks. My eyelashes 
were still wet. 

He sighed and then nodded once. 

fLky 



96 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The paper disappeared from under my hand. I looked 
up, blinking in surprise, just as Mr. Berty came down 
the aisle. 

“Is that something you’d like to share there, Mr. 
Cullen?” 

Edward looked up innocently and held out the sheet 
of paper on top of his folder. “My notes?” he asked, 
sounding confused. 

Mr. Berty scanned the notes — no doubt a perfect 
transcription of his lecture — and then walked away 
frowning. 

It was later, in Calculus — my one class without 
Edward — that I heard the gossip. 

“My money’s on the big Indian,” someone was saying. 

I peeked up to see that Tyler, Mike, Austin, and Ben 
had their heads bent together, deep in conversation. 

“Yeah,” Mike whispered. “Did you see the size of that 
Jacob kid? I think he could take Cullen down.” Mike 
sounded pleased by the idea. 

“I don’t think so,” Ben disagreed. “There’s something 
about Edward. He’s always so ... confident. I have a 
feeling he can take care of himself.” 

“I’m with Ben,” Tyler agreed. “Besides, if that other 
kid messed Edward up, you know those big brothers 
of his would get involved.” 

“Have you been down to La Push lately?” Mike asked. 
“Lauren and I went to the beach a couple of weeks 
ago, and believe me, Jacob’s friends are all just as big 
as he is.” 

97 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Huh,” Tyler said. “Too bad it didn’t turn into 
anything. Guess we’ll never know how it would have 
turned out.” 

“It didn’t look over to me,” Austin said. “Maybe we’ll 
get to see.” 

Mike grinned. “Anyone in the mood for a bet?” 

“Ten on Jacob,” Austin said at once. 

“Ten on Cullen,” Tyler chimed in. 

“Ten on Edward,” Ben agreed. 

“Jacob,” Mike said. 

“Hey, do you guys know what it was about?” Austin 
wondered. “That might affect the odds.” 

“I can guess,” Mike said, and then he shot a glance at 
me at the same time that Ben and Tyler did. 

From their expressions, none of them had realized I 
was in easy hearing distance. They all looked away 
quickly, shuffling the papers on their desks. 

“I still say Jacob,” Mike muttered under his breath. 



98 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





I was having a bad week. 

I knew that essentially nothing had changed. Okay, 
so Victoria had not given up, but had I ever dreamed 
for one moment that she had? Her reappearance had 
only confirmed what I’d already known. No reason for 
fresh panic. 

In theory. Not panicking was easier said than done. 

Graduation was only a few weeks away, but I 
wondered if it wasn’t a little foolish to sit around, 
weak and tasty, waiting for the next disaster. It 
seemed too dangerous to be human — just begging 
for trouble. Someone like me shouldn’t be human. 
Someone with my luck ought to be a little less 
helpless. 

But no one would listen to me. 

Carlisle had said, “There are seven of us, Bella. And 
with Alice on our side, I don’t think Victoria’s going to 
catch us off guard. I think it’s important, for Charlie’s 
sake, that we stick with the original plan.” 

Esme had said, “We’d never allow anything to happen 
to you, sweetheart. You know that. Please don’t be 
anxious.” And then she’d kissed my forehead. 

Emmett had said, “I’m really glad Edward didn’t kill 
you. Everything’s so much more fun with you 
around.” 



Rosalie had glared at him. 

99 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



Alice had rolled her eyes and said, “I’m offended. 
You’re not honestly worried about this, are you?” 

“If it’s no big deal, then why did Edward drag me to 
Florida?” I’d demanded. 

“Haven’t you noticed yet, Bella, that Edward is just 
the teeniest bit prone to overreaction?” 

Jasper had silently erased all the panic and tension 
in my body with his curious talent of controlling 
emotional atmospheres. I’d felt reassured, and let 
them talk me out of my desperate pleading. 

Of course, that calm had worn off as soon as Edward 
and I had walked out of the room. 

So the consensus was that I was just supposed to 
forget that a deranged vampire was stalking me, 
intent on my death. Go about my business. 

I did try. And surprisingly, there were other things 
almost as stressful to dwell on besides my status on 
the endangered species list... . 

Because Edward’s response had been the most 
frustrating of them all. 

“That’s between you and Carlisle,” he’d said. “Of 
course, you know that I’m willing to make it between 
you and me at any time that you wish. You know my 
condition.” And he had smiled angelically. 

Ugh. I did know his condition. Edward had promised 
that he would change me himself whenever I wanted 
... just as long as I was married to him first. 

Sometimes I wondered if he was only pretending that 
he couldn’t read my mind. How else had he struck 

100 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




upon the one condition that I would have trouble 
accepting? The one condition that would slow me 
down. 

All in all, a very bad week. And today was the worst 
day in it. 

It was always a bad day when Edward was away. 

Alice had foreseen nothing out of the ordinary this 
weekend, and so I’d insisted that he take the 
opportunity to go hunting with his brothers. I knew 
how it bored him to hunt the easy, nearby prey. 

“Go have fun,” I’d told him. “Bag a few mountain lions 
for me.” 



I would never admit to him how hard it was for me 
when he was gone — how it brought back the 
abandonment nightmares. If he knew that, it would 
make him feel horrible and he would be afraid to ever 
leave me, even for the most necessary reasons. It had 
been like that in the beginning, when he’d first 
returned from Italy. His golden eyes had turned black 
and he’d suffered from his thirst more than it was 
already necessary that he suffer. So I put on a brave 
face and all but kicked him out the door whenever 
Emmett and Jasper wanted to go. 

I think he saw through me, though. A little. This 
morning there had been a note left on my pillow: 



J He back so soon you won t have time to miss me. £ook 
^ajtcr my heart vejlcfe it with you. 



So now I had a big empty Saturday with nothing but 
my morning shift at Newton’s Olympic Outfitters to 



101 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




distract me. And, of course, the oh-so-comforting 
promise from Alice. 

“I’m staying close to home to hunt. I’ll only be fifteen 
minutes away if you need me. I’ll keep an eye out for 
trouble.” 

Translation: don’t try anything funny just because 
Edward is gone. 

Alice was certainly just as capable of crippling my 
truck as Edward was. 

I tried to look on the bright side. After work, I had 
plans to help Angela with her announcements, so that 
would be a distraction. And Charlie was in an 
excellent mood due to Edward’s absence, so I might 
as well enjoy that while it lasted. Alice would spend 
the night with me if I was pathetic enough to ask her 
to. And then tomorrow, Edward would be home. I 
would survive. 

Not wanting to be ridiculously early for work, I ate my 
breakfast slowly, one Cheerio at a time. Then, when 
I’d washed the dishes, I arranged the magnets on the 
fridge into a perfect line. Maybe I was developing 
obsessive-compulsive disorder. 

The last two magnets — round black utilitarian pieces 
that were my favorites because they could hold ten 
sheets of paper to the fridge without breaking a sweat 
— did not want to cooperate with my fixation. Their 
polarities were reversed; every time I tried to line the 
last one up, the other jumped out of place. 

For some reason — impending mania, perhaps — this 
really irritated me. Why couldn’t they just play nice? 
Stupid with stubbornness, I kept shoving them 
together as if I was expecting them to suddenly give 

102 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




up. I could have flipped one over, but that felt like 
losing. Finally, exasperated at myself more than the 
magnets, I pulled them from the fridge and held them 
together with two hands. It took a little effort — they 
were strong enough to put up a fight — but I forced 
them to coexist side-by-side. 

“See,” I said out loud — talking to inanimate objects, 
never a good sign — “That’s not so horrible, is it?” 

I stood there like an idiot for a second, not quite able 
to admit that I wasn’t having any lasting effect 
against scientific principles. Then, with a sigh, I put 
the magnets back on the fridge, a foot apart. 

“There’s no need to be so inflexible,” I muttered. 

It was still too early, but I decided I’d better get out of 
the house before the inanimate objects started talking 
back. 

When I got to Newton’s, Mike was methodically dry 
mopping the aisles while his mom arranged a new 
counter display. I caught them in the middle of an 
argument, unaware that I had arrived. 

“But it’s the only time that Tyler can go,” Mike 
complained. “You said after graduation — ” 

“You’re just going to have to wait,” Mrs. Newton 
snapped. “You and Tyler can think of something else 
to do. You are not going to Seattle until the police 
stop whatever it is that is going on there. I know Beth 
Crowley has told Tyler the same thing, so don’t act 
like I’m the bad guy — oh, good morning, Bella,” she 
said when she caught sight of me, brightening her 
tone quickly. “You’re early.” 



103 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Karen Newton was the last person I’d think to ask for 
help in an outdoor sports equipment store. Her 
perfectly highlighted blond hair was always smoothed 
into an elegant twist on the back of her neck, her 
fingernails were polished by professionals, as were 
her toenails — visible through the strappy high heels 
that didn’t resemble anything Newton’s offered on the 
long row of hiking boots. 

“Light traffic,” I joked as I grabbed my hideous 
fluorescent orange vest out from under the counter. I 
was surprised that Mrs. Newton was as worked up 
about this Seattle thing as Charlie. I’d thought he was 
going to extremes. 

“Well, er ...” Mrs. Newton hesitated for a moment, 
playing uncomfortably with a stack of flyers she was 
arranging by the register. 

I stopped with one arm in my vest. I knew that look. 

When I’d let the Newtons know that I wouldn’t be 
working here this summer — abandoning them in 
their busiest season, in effect — they’d started 
training Katie Marshall to take my place. They 
couldn’t really afford both of us on the payroll at the 
same time, so when it looked like a slow day ... 

“I was going to call,” Mrs. Newton continued. “I don’t 
think we’re expecting a ton of business today. Mike 
and I can probably handle things. I’m sorry you got 
up and drove out... .” 

On a normal day, I would be ecstatic with this turn of 
events. Today ... not so much. 

“Okay,” I sighed. My shoulders slumped. What was I 
going to do now? 



104 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s not fair, Mom,” Mike said. “If Bella wants to 
work — ” 

“No, it’s okay, Mrs. Newton. Really, Mike. I’ve got 
finals to study for and stuff... .” I didn’t want to be a 
source of familial discord when they were already 
arguing. 

“Thanks, Bella. Mike, you missed aisle four. Um, 
Bella, do you mind throwing these flyers in a 
Dumpster on the way out? I told the girl who left 
them here that I’d put them on the counter, but I 
really don’t have the room.” 

“Sure, no problem.” I put my vest away, and then 
tucked the flyers under my arm and headed out into 
the misty rain. 

The Dumpster was around the side of Newton’s, next 
to where we employees were supposed to park. I 
shuffled along, kicking pebbles petulantly on my way. 
I was about to fling the stack of bright yellow papers 
into the trash when the heading printed in bold 
across the top caught my eye. One word in particular 
seized my attention. 

I clutched the papers in both hands as I stared at the 
picture beneath the caption. A lump rose in my 
throat. 

SAVE THE OLYMPIC WOLF 

Under the words, there was a detailed drawing of a 
wolf in front of a fir tree, its head thrown back in the 
act of baying at the moon. It was a disconcerting 
picture; something about the wolf’s plaintive posture 
made him look forlorn. Like he was howling in grief. 



105 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




And then I was running to my truck, the flyers still 
locked in my grip. 

Fifteen minutes — that’s all I had. But it should be 
long enough. It was only fifteen minutes to La Push, 
and surely I would cross the boundary line a few 
minutes before I hit the town. 

My truck roared to life without any difficulty. 

Alice couldn’t have seen me doing this, because I 
hadn’t been planning it. A snap decision, that was the 
key! And as long as I moved fast enough, I should be 
able to capitalize on it. 

I’d thrown the damp flyers in my haste and they were 
scattered in a bright mess across the passenger seat 
— a hundred bolded captions, a hundred dark 
howling wolves outlined against the yellow 
background. 

I barreled down the wet highway, turning the 
windshield wipers on high and ignoring the groan of 
the ancient engine. Fifty-five was the most I could 
coax out of my truck, and I prayed it would be 
enough. 

I had no clue where the boundary line was, but I 
began to feel safer as I passed the first houses outside 
La Push. This must be beyond where Alice was 
allowed to follow. 

I’d call her when I got to Angela’s this afternoon, I 
reasoned, so that she’d know I was fine. There was no 
reason for her to get worked up. She didn’t need to be 
mad at me — Edward would be angry enough for two 
when he got back. 



106 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




My truck was positively wheezing by the time it grated 
to a stop in front of the familiar faded red house. The 
lump came back to my throat as I stared at the little 
place that had once been my refuge. It had been so 
long since I’d been here. 

Before I could cut the engine, Jacob was standing in 
the door, his face blank with shock. 

In the sudden silence when the truck-roar died, I 
heard him gasp. 

“Bella?” 

“Hey, Jake!” 

“Bella!” he yelled back, and the smile I’d been waiting 
for stretched across his face like the sun breaking free 
of the clouds. His teeth gleamed bright against his 
russet skin. “I can’t believe it!” 

He ran to the truck and half-yanked me through the 
open door, and then we were both jumping up and 
down like kids. 

“How did you get here?” 

“I snuck out!” 

“Awesome!” 

“Hey, Bella!” Billy had rolled himself into the doorway 
to see what all the commotion was about. 

“Hey, Bil — !” 

Just then my air choked off — Jacob grabbed me up 
in a bear hug too tight to breathe and swung me 
around in a circle. 

107 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Wow, it’s good to see you here!” 

“Can’t ... breathe,” I gasped. 

He laughed and put me down. 

“Welcome back, Bella,” he said, grinning. And the way 
he said the words made it sound like welcome home. 

We started walking, too keyed up to sit still in the 
house. Jacob was practically bouncing as he moved, 
and I had to remind him a few times that my legs 
weren’t ten feet long. 

As we walked, I felt myself settling into another 
version of myself, the self I had been with Jacob. A 
little younger, a little less responsible. Someone who 
might, on occasion, do something really stupid for no 
good reason. 

Our exuberance lasted through the first few topics of 
conversation: how we were doing, what we were up to, 
how long I had, and what had brought me here. When 
I hesitantly told him about the wolf flyer, his 
bellowing laugh echoed back from the trees. 

But then, as we ambled past the back of the store and 
shoved through the thick scrub that ringed the far 
edge of First Beach, we got to the hard parts. All too 
soon we had to talk about the reasons behind our 
long separation, and I watched as the face of my 
friend hardened into the bitter mask that was already 
too familiar. 

“So what’s the story, anyway?” Jacob asked me, 
kicking a piece of driftwood out of his way with too 
much force. It sailed over the sand and then clattered 
against the rocks. “I mean, since the last time we ... 
well, before, you know ...” He struggled for the words. 
108 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




He took a deep breath and tried again. “What I’m 
asking is ... everything is just back to the way it was 
before he left? You forgave him for all of that?” 

I took a deep breath. “There was nothing to forgive.” 

I wanted to skip past this part, the betrayals, the 
accusations, but I knew that we had to talk it through 
before we’d be able to move on to anything else. 

Jacob’s face puckered up like he’d just licked a 
lemon. “I wish Sam had taken a picture when he 
found you that night last September. It would be 
exhibit A.” 

“Nobody’s on trial.” 

“Maybe somebody should be.” 

“Not even you would blame him for leaving, if you 
knew the reason why.” 

He glared at me for a few seconds. “Okay,” he 
challenged acidly. “Amaze me.” 

His hostility was wearing on me — chafing against the 
raw; it hurt to have him angry with me. It reminded 
me of the bleak afternoon, long ago, when — under 
orders from Sam — he’d told me we couldn’t be 
friends. I took a second to compose myself. 

“Edward left me last fall because he didn’t think I 
should be hanging out with vampires. He thought it 
would be healthier for me if he left.” 

Jacob did a double take. He had to scramble for a 
minute. Whatever he’d been planning to say, it clearly 
no longer applied. I was glad he didn’t know the 
catalyst behind Edward’s decision. I could only 

109 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




imagine what he’d think if he knew Jasper had tried 
to kill me. 



“He came back, though, didn’t he?” Jacob muttered. 
“Too bad he can’t stick to a decision.” 

“If you remember, I went and got him.” 

Jacob stared at me for a moment, and then he backed 
off. His face relaxed, and his voice was calmer when 
he spoke. 

“That’s true. So I never did get the story. What 
happened?” 

I hesitated, biting my lip. 

“Is it a secret?” His voice took on a taunting edge. 

“Are you not allowed to tell me?” 

“No,” I snapped. “It’s just a really long story.” 

Jacob smiled, arrogant, and turned to walk up the 
beach, expecting me to follow. 

It was no fun being with Jacob if he was going to act 
like this. I trailed behind him automatically, not sure 
if I shouldn’t turn around and leave. I was going to 
have to face Alice, though, when I got home... . I 
supposed I wasn’t in any rush. 

Jacob walked to a huge, familiar piece of driftwood — 
an entire tree, roots and all, bleached white and 
beached deep in the sand; it was our tree, in a way. 

Jacob sat down on the natural bench, and patted the 
space next to him. 

“I don’t mind long stories. Is there any action?” 

110 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




I rolled my eyes as I sat next to him. “There’s some 
action,” I allowed. 

“It wouldn’t be real horror without action.” 

“Horror!” I scoffed. “Can you listen, or will you be 
interrupting me with rude comments about my 
friends?” 

He pretended to lock his lips and then threw the 
invisible key over his shoulder. I tried not to smile, 
and failed. 

“I’ll have to start with the stuff you were already there 
for,” I decided, working to organize the stories in my 
head before I began. 

Jacob raised his hand. 

“Go ahead.” 

“That’s good,” he said. “I didn’t understand much that 
was going on at the time.” 

“Yeah, well, it gets complicated, so pay attention. You 
know how Alice sees things?” 

I took his scowl — the wolves weren’t thrilled that the 
legends of vampires possessing supernatural gifts 
were true — for a yes, and proceeded with the 
account of my race through Italy to rescue Edward. 

I kept it as succinct as possible — leaving out 
anything that wasn’t essential. I tried to read Jacob’s 
reactions, but his face was enigmatic as I explained 
how Alice had seen Edward plan to kill himself when 
he’d heard that I was dead. Sometimes Jacob seemed 
so deep in thought, I wasn’t sure if he was listening. 
He only interrupted one time. 

Ill | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“The fortune-telling bloodsucker can’t see us?” he 
echoed, his face both fierce and gleeful. “Seriously? 
That’s excellent!” 

I clenched my teeth together, and we sat in silence, 
his face expectant as he waited for me to continue. I 
glared at him until he realized his mistake. 

“Oops!” he said. “Sorry.” He locked his lips again. 

His response was easier to read when I got to the part 
about the Volturi. His teeth clenched together, goose 
bumps rose on his arms, and his nostrils flared. I 
didn’t go into specifics, I just told him that Edward 
had talked us out of trouble, without revealing the 
promise we’d had to make, or the visit we were 
anticipating. Jacob didn’t need to have my 
nightmares. 

“Now you know the whole story,” I concluded. “So it’s 
your turn to talk. What happened while I was with my 
mom this weekend?” I knew Jacob would give me 
more details than Edward had. He wasn’t afraid of 
scaring me. 

Jacob leaned forward, instantly animated. “So Embry 
and Quil and I were running patrol on Saturday 
night, just routine stuff, when out of nowhere — 
bam!” He threw his arms out, impersonating an 
explosion. “There it is — a fresh trail, not fifteen 
minutes old. Sam wanted us to wait for him, but I 
didn’t know you were gone, and I didn’t know if your 
bloodsuckers were keeping an eye on you or not. So 
we took off after her at full speed, but she’d crossed 
the treaty line before we caught up. We spread out 
along the line, hoping she’d cross back over. It was 
frustrating, let me tell you.” He wagged his head and 
his hair — growing out from the short crop he’d 
adopted when he’d joined the pack — flopped into his 
112 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




eyes. “We ended up too far south. The Cullens chased 
her back to our side just a few miles north of us. 
Would have been the perfect ambush if we’d known 
where to wait.” 

He shook his head, grimacing now. “That’s when it 
got dicey. Sam and the others caught up to her before 
we did, but she was dancing right along the line, and 
the whole coven was right there on the other side. The 
big one, what’s-his-name — ” 

“Emmett.” 

“Yeah, him. He made a lunge for her, but that 
redhead is fast! He flew right behind her and almost 
rammed into Paul. So, Paul ... well, you know Paul.” 

“Yeah.” 

“Lost his focus. Can’t say that I blame him — the big 
bloodsucker was right on top of him. He sprang — 
hey, don’t give me that look. The vampire was on our 
land.” 

I tried to compose my face so that he would go on. My 
nails were digging into my palms with the stress of 
the story, even though I knew it had turned out fine. 

“Anyway, Paul missed, and the big one got back on 
his side. But by then the, er, well the, uh, blonde ...” 
Jacob’s expression was a comical mix of disgust and 
unwilling admiration as he tried to come up with a 
word to describe Edward’s sister. 

“Rosalie.” 

“Whatever. She got real territorial, so Sam and I fell 
back to get Paul’s flanks. Then their leader and the 
other blond male — ” 

113 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Carlisle and Jasper.” 



He gave me an exasperated look. “You know I don’t 
really care. Anyway, so Carlisle spoke to Sam, trying 
to calm things down. Then it was weird, because 
everyone got really calm really fast. It was that other 
one you told me about, messing with our heads. But 
even though we knew what he was doing, we couldn’t 
not be calm.” 

“Yeah, I know how it feels.” 

“Really annoying, that’s how it feels. Only you can’t be 
annoyed until afterwards.” He shook his head angrily. 
“So Sam and the head vamp agreed that Victoria was 
the priority, and we started after her again. Carlisle 
gave us the line, so that we could follow the scent 
properly, but then she hit the cliffs just north of 
Makah country, right where the line hugs the coast 
for a few miles. She took off into the water again. The 
big one and the calm one wanted permission to cross 
the line to go after her, but of course we said no.” 

“Good. I mean, you were being stupid, but I’m glad. 
Emmett’s never cautious enough. He could have 
gotten hurt.” 

Jacob snorted. “So did your vampire tell you we 
attacked for no reason and his totally innocent coven 



“No,” I interrupted. “Edward told me the same story, 
just without quite as many details.” 

“Huh,” Jacob said under his breath, and he bent over 
to pick up a rock from among the millions of pebbles 
at our feet. With a casual flick, he sent it flying a good 
hundred meters out into the bay. “Well, she’ll be 
back, I guess. We’ll get another shot at her.” 

114 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




I shuddered; of course she would be back. Would 
Edward really tell me next time? I wasn’t sure. I’d 
have to keep an eye on Alice, to look for the signs that 
the pattern was about to repeat... . 

Jacob didn’t seem to notice my reaction. He was 
staring across the waves with a thoughtful expression 
on his face, his broad lips pursed. 

“What are you thinking about?” I asked after a long, 
quiet time. 

“I’m thinking about what you told me. About when 
the fortune-teller saw you cliff jumping and thought 
you’d committed suicide, and how it all got out of 
control... . Do you realize that if you had just waited 
for me like you were supposed to, then the bl — Alice 
wouldn’t have been able to see you jump? Nothing 
would have changed. We’d probably be in my garage 
right now, like any other Saturday. There wouldn’t be 
any vampires in Forks, and you and me ...” He trailed 
off, deep in thought. 

It was disconcerting the way he said this, like it would 
be a good thing to have no vampires in Forks. My 
heart thumped unevenly at the emptiness of the 
picture he painted. 

“Edward would have come back anyway.” 

“Are you sure about that?” he asked, belligerent again 
as soon as I spoke Edward’s name. 

“Being apart ... It didn’t work out so well for either of 
us.” 



He started to say something, something angry from 
his expression, but he stopped himself, took a breath, 
and began again. 

115 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Did you know Sam is mad at you?” 

“Me?” It took me a second. “Oh. I see. He thinks they 
would have stayed away if I wasn’t here.” 

“No. That’s not it.” 

“What’s his problem then?” 

Jacob leaned down to scoop up another rock. He 
turned it over and over in his fingers; his eyes were 
riveted on the black stone while he spoke in a low 
voice. 

“When Sam saw . . . how you were in the beginning, 
when Billy told them how Charlie worried when you 
didn’t get better, and then when you started jumping 
off cliffs ...” 

I made a face. No one was ever going to let me forget 
that. 

Jacob’s eyes flashed up to mine. “He thought you 
were the one person in the world with as much 
reason to hate the Cullens as he does. Sam feels sort 
of ... betrayed that you would just let them back into 
your life like they never hurt you.” 

I didn’t believe for a second that Sam was the only 
one who felt that way. And the acid in my voice now 
was for both of them. 

“You can tell Sam to go right to — ” 

“Look at that,” Jacob interrupted me, pointing to an 
eagle in the act of plummeting down toward the ocean 
from an incredible height. It checked itself at the last 
minute, only its talons breaking the surface of the 
waves, just for an instant. Then it flapped away, its 
116 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




wings straining against the load of the huge fish it 
had snagged. 

“You see it everywhere,” Jacob said, his voice 
suddenly distant. “Nature taking its course — hunter 
and prey, the endless cycle of life and death.” 

I didn’t understand the point of the nature lecture; I 
guessed that he was just trying to change the subject. 
But then he looked down at me with dark humor in 
his eyes. 

“And yet, you don’t see the fish trying to plant a kiss 
on the eagle. You never see that.” He grinned a 
mocking grin. 

I grinned back tightly, though the acid taste was still 
in my mouth. “Maybe the fish was trying,” I 
suggested. “It’s hard to tell what a fish is thinking. 
Eagles are good-looking birds, you know.” 

“Is that what it comes down to?” His voice was 
abruptly sharper. “Good looks?” 

“Don’t be stupid, Jacob.” 

“Is it the money, then?” he persisted. 

“That’s nice,” I muttered, getting up from the tree. 

“I’m flattered that you think so much of me.” I turned 
my back on him and paced away. 

“Aw, don’t get mad.” He was right behind me; he 
caught my wrist and spun me around. “I’m serious! 
I’m trying to understand here, and I’m coming up 
blank.” 

His eyebrows pushed together angrily, and his eyes 
were black in their deep shadow. 

117 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I love him. Not because he’s beautiful or because he’s 
rich!” I spat the word at Jacob. “I’d much rather he 
weren’t either one. It would even out the gap between 
us just a little bit — because he’d still be the most 
loving and unselfish and brilliant and decent person 
I’ve ever met. Of course I love him. How hard is that 
to understand?” 

“It’s impossible to understand.” 

“Please enlighten me, then, Jacob.” I let the sarcasm 
flow thick. “What is a valid reason for someone to love 
someone else? Since apparently I’m doing it wrong.” 

“I think the best place to start would be to look within 
your own species. That usually works.” 

“Well, that just sucks!” I snapped. “I guess I’m stuck 
with Mike Newton after all.” 

Jacob flinched back and bit his lip. I could see that 
my words had hurt him, but I was too mad to feel bad 
about that yet. He dropped my wrist and folded his 
arms across his chest, turning from me to glare 
toward the ocean. 

“I’m human,” he muttered, his voice almost inaudible. 

“You’re not as human as Mike,” I continued 
ruthlessly. “Do you still think that’s the most 
important consideration?” 

“It’s not the same thing.” Jacob didn’t look away from 
the gray waves. “I didn’t choose this.” 

I laughed once in disbelief. “Do you think Edward 
did? He didn’t know what was happening to him any 
more than you did. He didn’t exactly sign up for this.” 



118 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob was shaking his head back and forth with a 
small, quick movement. 

“You know, Jacob, you’re awfully self-righteous — 
considering that you’re a werewolf and all.” 

“It’s not the same,” Jacob repeated, glowering at me. 

“I don’t see why not. You could be a bit more 
understanding about the Cullens. You have no idea 
how truly good they are — to the core, Jacob.” 

He frowned more deeply. “They shouldn’t exist. Their 
existence goes against nature.” 

I stared at him for a long moment with one eyebrow 
raised incredulously. It was a while before he noticed. 

“What?” 

“Speaking of unnatural ... ,” I hinted. 

“Bella,” he said, his voice slow and different. Aged. I 
realized that he sounded suddenly older than me — 
like a parent or a teacher. “What I am was born in 
me. It’s a part of who I am, who my family is, who we 
all are as a tribe — it’s the reason why we’re still here. 

“Besides that” — he looked down at me, his black 
eyes unreadable — “I am still human.” 

He picked up my hand and pressed it to his fever- 
warm chest. Through his t-shirt, I could feel the 
steady beating of his heart under my palm. 

“Normal humans can’t throw motorcycles around the 
way you can.” 



119 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He smiled a faint, half-smile. “Normal humans run 
away from monsters, Bella. And I never claimed to be 
normal. Just human.” 

Staying angry with Jacob was too much work. I 
started to smile as I pulled my hand away from his 
chest. 

“You look plenty human to me,” I allowed. “At the 
moment.” 

“I feel human.” He stared past me, his face far away. 
His lower lip trembled, and he bit down on it hard. 

“Oh, Jake,” I whispered, reaching for his hand. 

This was why I was here. This was why I would take 
whatever reception waited for me when I got back. 
Because, underneath all the anger and the sarcasm, 
Jacob was in pain. Right now, it was very clear in his 
eyes. I didn’t know how to help him, but I knew I had 
to try. It was more than that I owed him. It was 
because his pain hurt me, too. Jacob had become a 
part of me, and there was no changing that now. 



120 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




IMPRINT 



“Are you okay, Jake? Charlie said you were having a 
hard time... . Isn’t it getting any better?” 

His warm hand curled around mine. “’S not so bad,” 
he said, but he wouldn’t meet my eyes. 

He walked slowly back to the driftwood bench, staring 
at the rainbow-colored pebbles, and pulling me along 
at his side. I sat back down on our tree, but he sat on 
the wet, rocky ground rather than next to me. I 
wondered if it was so that he could hide his face more 
easily. He kept my hand. 

I started babbling to fill the silence. “It’s been so long 
since I was here. I’ve probably missed a ton of things. 
How are Sam and Emily? And Embry? Did Quil — ?” 

I broke off mid-sentence, remembering that Jacob’s 
friend Quil had been a sensitive subject. 

“Ah, Quil,” Jacob sighed. 

So then it must have happened — Quil must have 
joined the pack. 

“I’m sorry,” I mumbled. 

To my surprise, Jacob snorted. “Don’t say that to 
him.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“Quil’s not looking for pity. Just the opposite — he’s 
jazzed. Totally thrilled.” 

121 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



This made no sense to me. All the other wolves had 
been so depressed at the idea of their friend sharing 
their fate. “Huh?” 



Jacob tilted his head back to look at me. He smiled 
and rolled his eyes. 

“Quil thinks it’s the coolest thing that’s ever 
happened to him. Part of it is finally knowing what’s 
going on. And he’s excited to have his friends back — 
to be part of the ‘in crowd.’” Jacob snorted again. 
“Shouldn’t be surprised, I guess. It’s so Quil.” 

“He likes it?” 

“Honestly ... most of them do,” Jacob admitted slowly. 
“There are definitely good sides to this — the speed, 
the freedom, the strength ... the sense of — of 
family. . . . Sam and I are the only ones who ever felt 
really bitter. And Sam got past that a long time ago. 

So I’m the crybaby now.” Jacob laughed at himself. 

There were so many things I wanted to know. “Why 
are you and Sam different? What happened to Sam 
anyway? What’s his problem?” The questions tumbled 
out without room to answer them, and Jacob laughed 
again. 

“That’s a long story.” 

“I told you a long story. Besides, I’m not in any hurry 
to get back,” I said, and then I grimaced as I thought 
of the trouble I would be in. 

He looked up at me swiftly, hearing the double edge 
in my words. “Will he be mad at you?” 

“Yes,” I admitted. “He really hates it when I do things 
he considers ... risky.” 

122 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Like hanging out with werewolves.” 



“Yeah.” 

Jacob shrugged. “So don’t go back. I’ll sleep on the 
couch.” 

“That’s a great idea,” I grumbled. “Because then he 
would come looking for me.” 

Jacob stiffened, and then smiled bleakly. “Would he?” 

“If he was afraid I was hurt or something — 
probably.” 

“My idea’s sounding better all the time.” 

“Please, Jake. That really bugs me.” 

“What does?” 

“That you two are so ready to kill each other!” I 
complained. “It makes me crazy. Why can’t you both 
just be civilized?” 

“Is he ready to kill me?” Jacob asked with a grim 
smile, unconcerned by my anger. 

“Not like you seem to be!” I realized I was yelling. “At 
least he can be a grown-up about this. He knows that 
hurting you would hurt me — and so he never would. 
You don’t seem to care about that at all!” 

“Yeah, right,” Jacob muttered. “I’m sure he’s quite the 
pacifist.” 

“Ugh!” I ripped my hand out of his and shoved his 
head away. Then I pulled my knees up to my chest 
and wrapped my arms tightly around them. 

123 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I glared out toward the horizon, fuming. 

Jacob was quiet for a few minutes. Finally, he got up 
off the ground and sat beside me, putting his arm 
around my shoulders. I shook it off. 

“Sorry,” he said quietly. “Ill try to behave myself.” 

I didn’t answer. 

“Do you still want to hear about Sam?” he offered. 

I shrugged. 

“Like I said, it’s a long story. And very ... strange. 
There ’re so many strange things about this new life. I 
haven’t had time to tell you the half of it. And this 
thing with Sam — well, I don’t know if I’ll even be able 
to explain it right.” 

His words pricked my curiosity in spite of my 
irritation. 

“I’m listening,” I said stiffly. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I saw the side of his face 
pull up in a smile. 

“Sam had it so much harder than the rest of us. 
Because he was the first, and he was alone, and he 
didn’t have anyone to tell him what was happening. 
Sam’s grandfather died before he was born, and his 
father has never been around. There was no one there 
to recognize the signs. The first time it happened — 
the first time he phased — he thought he’d gone 
insane. It took him two weeks to calm down enough 
to change back. 



124 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“This was before you came to Forks, so you wouldn’t 
remember. Sam’s mother and Leah Clearwater had 
the forest rangers searching for him, the police. 

People thought there had been an accident or 
something... .” 

“Leah?” I asked, surprised. Leah was Harry’s 
daughter. Hearing her name sent an automatic surge 
of pity through me. Harry Clearwater, Charlie’s life- 
long friend, had died of a heart attack this past 
spring. 

His voice changed, became heavier. “Yeah. Leah and 
Sam were high school sweethearts. They started 
dating when she was just a freshman. She was frantic 
when he disappeared.” 

“But he and Emily — ” 

“I’ll get to that — it’s part of the story,” he said. He 
inhaled slowly, and then exhaled in a gust. 

I supposed it was silly for me to imagine that Sam 
had never loved anyone before Emily. Most people fall 
in and out of love many times in their lives. It was 
just that I’d seen Sam with Emily, and I couldn’t 
imagine him with someone else. The way he looked at 
her ... well, it reminded me of a look I’d seen 
sometimes in Edward’s eyes — when he was looking 
at me. 

“Sam came back,” Jacob said, “but he wouldn’t talk 
to anyone about where he’d been. Rumors flew — that 
he was up to no good, mostly. And then Sam 
happened to run in to Quil’s grandfather one 
afternoon when Old Quil Ateara came to visit Mrs. 
Uley. Sam shook his hand. Old Quil just about had a 
stroke.” Jacob paused to laugh. 



125 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why?” 



Jacob put his hand on my cheek and pulled my face 
around to look at him — he was leaning toward me, 
his face was just a few inches away. His palm burned 
my skin, like he had a fever. 

“Oh, right,” I said. It was uncomfortable, having my 
face so close to his with his hand hot against my skin. 
“Sam was running a temperature.” 

Jacob laughed again. “Sam’s hand felt like he’d left it 
sitting on a hot stovetop.” 

He was so close, I could feel his warm breath. I 
reached up casually, to take his hand away and free 
my face, but wound my fingers through his so that I 
wouldn’t hurt his feelings. He smiled and leaned 
back, undeceived by my attempt at nonchalance. 

“So Mr. Ateara went straight to the other elders,” 
Jacob went on. “They were the only ones left who still 
knew, who remembered. Mr. Ateara, Billy, and Harry 
had actually seen their grandfathers make the 
change. When Old Quil told them, they met with Sam 
secretly and explained. 

“It was easier when he understood — when he wasn’t 
alone anymore. They knew he wouldn’t be the only 
one affected by the Cullens’ return” — he pronounced 
the name with unconscious bitterness — “but no one 
else was old enough. So Sam waited for the rest of us 
to join him... .” 

“The Cullens had no idea,” I said in a whisper. “They 
didn’t think that werewolves still existed here. They 
didn’t know that coming here would change you.” 

“It doesn’t change the fact that it did.” 

126 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Remind me not to get on your bad side.” 



“You think I should be as forgiving as you are? We 
can’t all be saints and martyrs.” 

“Grow up, Jacob.” 

“I wish I could,” he murmured quietly. 

I stared at him, trying to make sense of his response. 
“What?” 

Jacob chuckled. “One of those many strange things I 
mentioned.” 

“You ... can’t ... grow up?” I said blankly. “You’re 
what? Not ... aging? Is that a joke?” 

“Nope.” He popped his lips on the P. 

I felt blood flood my face. Tears — tears of rage — 
filled my eyes. My teeth mashed together with an 
audible grinding sound. 

“Bella? What did I say?” 

I was on my feet again, my hands balled up into fists, 
my whole frame shaking. 

“You. Are. Not. Aging,” I growled through my teeth. 

Jacob tugged my arm gently, trying to make me sit. 
“None of us are. What’s wrong with you?” 

“Am I the only one who has to get old? I get older 
every stinking day!” I nearly shrieked, throwing my 
hands in the air. Some little part of me recognized 
that I was throwing a Charlie-esque fit, but that 
rational part was greatly overshadowed by the 
127 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




irrational part. “Damn it! What kind of world is this? 
Where’s the justice?” 

“Take it easy, Bella.” 

“Shut up, Jacob. Just shut up! This is so unfair!” 

“Did you seriously just stamp your foot? I thought 
girls only did that on TV.” 

I growled unimpressively. 

“It’s not as bad as you seem to think it is. Sit down 
and I’ll explain.” 

“I’ll stand.” 

He rolled his eyes. “Okay. Whatever you want. But 
listen, I will get older ... someday.” 

“Explain.” 

He patted the tree. I glowered for a second, but then 
sat; my temper had burned out as suddenly as it had 
flared and I’d calmed down enough to realize that I 
was making a fool of myself. 

“When we get enough control to quit ... ,” Jacob said. 
“When we stop phasing for a solid length of time, we 
age again. It’s not easy.” He shook his head, abruptly 
doubtful. “It’s gonna take a really long time to learn 
that kind of restraint, I think. Even Sam’s not there 
yet. ’Course it doesn’t help that there’s a huge coven 
of vampires right down the road. We can’t even think 
about quitting when the tribe needs protectors. But 
you shouldn’t get all bent out of shape about it, 
anyway, because I’m already older than you, 
physically at least.” 



128 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What are you talking about?” 

“Look at me, Bells. Do I look sixteen?” 

I glanced up and down his mammoth frame, trying to 
be unbiased. “Not exactly, I guess.” 

“Not at all. Because we reach full growth inside of a 
few months when the werewolf gene gets triggered. 

It’s one hell of a growth spurt.” He made a face. 
“Physically, I’m probably twenty-five or something. So 
there’s no need for you to freak out about being too 
old for me for at least another seven years.” 

Twenty-five or something. The idea messed with my 
head. But I remembered that growth spurt — I 
remembered watching him shoot up and fill out right 
before my eyes. I remembered how he would look 
different from one day to the next... . I shook my 
head, feeling dizzy. 

“So, did you want to hear about Sam, or did you want 
to scream at me some more for things that are out of 
my control?” 

I took a deep breath. “Sorry. Age is a touchy subject 
for me. That hit a nerve.” 

Jacob’s eyes tightened, and he looked as if he were 
trying to decide how to word something. 

Since I didn’t want to talk about the truly touchy stuff 
— my plans for the future, or treaties that might be 
broken by said plans, I prompted him. “So once Sam 
understood what was going on, once he had Billy and 
Harry and Mr. Ateara, you said it wasn’t so hard 
anymore. And, like you also said, there are the cool 
parts... .” I hesitated briefly. “Why does Sam hate 



129 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




them so much? Why does he wish I would hate 
them?” 



Jacob sighed. “This is the really weird part.” 

“I’m a pro at weird.” 

“Yeah, I know.” He grinned before he continued. “So, 
you’re right. Sam knew what was going on, and 
everything was almost okay. In most ways, his life 
was back to, well, not normal. But better.” Then 
Jacob’s expression tightened, like something painful 
was coming. “Sam couldn’t tell Leah. We aren’t 
supposed to tell anyone who doesn’t have to know. 
And it wasn’t really safe for him to be around her — 
but he cheated, just like I did with you. Leah was 
furious that he wouldn’t tell her what was going on — 
where he’d been, where he went at night, why he was 
always so exhausted — but they were working it out. 
They were trying. They really loved each other.” 

“Did she find out? Is that what happened?” 

He shook his head. “No, that wasn’t the problem. Her 
cousin, Emily Young, came down from the Makah 
reservation to visit her one weekend.” 

I gasped. “Emily is Leah’s cousin?” 

“Second cousins. They’re close, though. They were 
like sisters when they were kids.” 

“That’s ... horrible. How could Sam ... ?” I trailed off, 
shaking my head. 

“Don’t judge him just yet. Did anyone ever tell you ... 
Have you ever heard of imprinting?” 



130 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Imprinting?” I repeated the unfamiliar word. “No. 
What’s that mean?” 



“It’s one of those bizarre things we have to deal with. 

It doesn’t happen to everyone. In fact, it’s the rare 
exception, not the rule. Sam had heard all the stories 
by then, the stories we all used to think were legends. 
He’d heard of imprinting, but he never dreamed ...” 

“What is it?” I prodded. 

Jacob’s eyes strayed to the ocean. “Sam did love Leah. 
But when he saw Emily, that didn’t matter anymore. 
Sometimes ... we don’t exactly know why ... we find 
our mates that way.” His eyes flashed back to me, his 
face reddening. “I mean ... our soul mates.” 

“What way? Love at first sight?” I snickered. 

Jacob wasn’t smiling. His dark eyes were critical of 
my reaction. “It’s a little bit more powerful than that. 
More absolute.” 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “You’re serious, aren’t you?” 
“Yeah, I am.” 

“Love at first sight? But more powerful?” My voice still 
sounded dubious, and he could hear that. 

“It’s not easy to explain. It doesn’t matter, anyway .” 

He shrugged indifferently. “You wanted to know what 
happened to Sam to make him hate the vampires for 
changing him, to make him hate himself. And that’s 
what happened. He broke Leah’s heart. He went back 
on every promise he’d ever made her. Every day he 
has to see the accusation in her eyes, and know that 
she’s right.” 



131 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He stopped talking abruptly, as if he’d said something 
he hadn’t meant to. 

“How did Emily deal with this? If she was so close to 
Leah ... ?” Sam and Emily were utterly right together, 
two puzzle pieces, shaped for each other exactly. Still 
... how had Emily gotten past the fact that he’d 
belonged to someone else? Her sister, almost. 

“She was real angry, in the beginning. But it’s hard to 
resist that level of commitment and adoration.” Jacob 
sighed. “And then, Sam could tell her everything. 
There are no rules that can bind you when you find 
your other half. You know how she got hurt?” 

“Yeah.” The story in Forks was that she was mauled 
by a bear, but I was in on the secret. 

Werewolves are unstable, Edward had said. The 
people near them get hurt. 

“Well, weirdly enough, that was sort of how they 
resolved things. Sam was so horrified, so sickened by 
himself, so full of hate for what he’d done... . He 
would have thrown himself under a bus if it would 
have made her feel better. He might have anyway, 
just to escape what he’d done. He was shattered... . 
Then, somehow, she was the one comforting him, and 
after that... .” 

Jacob didn’t finish his thought, and I sensed the story 
had gotten too personal to share. 

“Poor Emily,” I whispered. “Poor Sam. Poor Leah... .” 

“Yeah, Leah got the worst end of the stick,” he agreed. 
“She puts on a brave face. She’s going to be a 
bridesmaid.” 



132 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I gazed away, toward the jagged rocks that rose from 
the ocean like stubby broken-off fingers on the south 
rim of the harbor, while I tried to make sense of it all. 
I could feel his eyes on my face, waiting for me to say 
something. 

“Did it happen to you?” I finally asked, still looking 
away. “This love-at-first-sight thing?” 

“No,” he answered briskly. “Sam and Jared are the 
only ones.” 

“Hmm,” I said, trying to sound only politely 
interested. I was relieved, and I tried to explain my 
reaction to myself. I decided I was just glad he didn’t 
claim there was some mystical, wolfy connection 
between the two of us. Our relationship was 
confusing enough as it was. I didn’t need any more of 
the supernatural than I already had to deal with. 

He was quiet, too, and the silence felt a little 
awkward. My intuition told me that I didn’t want to 
hear what he was thinking. 

“How did that work out for Jared?” I asked to break 
the silence. 

“No drama there. It was just a girl he’d sat next to in 
school every day for a year and never looked at twice. 
And then, after he changed, he saw her again and 
never looked away. Kim was thrilled. She’d had a 
huge crush on him. She’d had his last name tacked 
on to the end of hers all over in her diary.” He 
laughed mockingly. 

I frowned. “Did Jared tell you that? He shouldn’t 
have.” 



133 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob bit his lip. “I guess I shouldn’t laugh. It was 
funny, though.” 



“Some soul mate.” 

He sighed. “Jared didn’t tell us anything on purpose. I 
already told you this part, remember?” 

“Oh, yeah. You can hear each other’s thoughts, but 
only when you’re wolves, right?” 

“Right. Just like your bloodsucker.” He glowered. 

“Edward,” I corrected. 

“Sure, sure. That’s how come I know so much about 
how Sam felt. It’s not like he would have told us all 
that if he’d had a choice. Actually, that’s something 
we all hate.” The bitterness was abruptly harsh in his 
voice. “It’s awful. No privacy, no secrets. Everything 
you’re ashamed of, laid out for everyone to see.” He 
shuddered. 

“It sounds horrible,” I whispered. 

“It is sometimes helpful when we need to coordinate,” 
he said grudgingly. “Once in a blue moon, when some 
bloodsucker crosses into our territory. Laurent was 
fun. And if the Cullens hadn’t gotten in our way last 
Saturday ... ugh!” he groaned. “We could have had 
her!” His fists clenched into angry balls. 

I flinched. As much as I worried about Jasper or 
Emmett getting hurt, it was nothing like the panic I 
felt at the idea of Jacob going up against Victoria. 
Emmett and Jasper were the closest thing to 
indestructible I could imagine. Jacob was still warm, 
still comparatively human. Mortal. I thought of Jacob 



134 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




facing Victoria, her brilliant hair blowing around her 
oddly feline face ... and shuddered. 

Jacob looked up at me with a curious expression. 
“But isn’t it like that for you all the time? Having him 
in your head?” 

“Oh, no. Edward’s never in my head. He only wishes.” 

Jacob’s expression became confused. 

“He can’t hear me,” I explained, my voice a tiny bit 
smug from old habit. “I’m the only one like that, for 
him. We don’t know why he can’t.” 

“Weird,” Jacob said. 

“Yeah.” The smugness faded. “It probably means 
there’s something wrong with my brain,” I admitted. 

“I already knew there was something wrong with your 
brain,” Jacob muttered. 

“Thanks.” 

The sun broke through the clouds suddenly, a 
surprise I hadn’t been expecting, and I had to narrow 
my eyes against the glare off the water. Everything 
changed color — the waves turned from gray to blue, 
the trees from dull olive to brilliant jade, and the 
rainbow-hued pebbles glittered like jewels. 

We squinted for a moment, letting our eyes adjust. 
There were no sounds besides the hollow roar of the 
waves that echoed from every side of the sheltered 
harbor, the soft grinding of the stones against each 
other under the water’s movement, and the cry of 
gulls high overhead. It was very peaceful. 



135 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob settled closer to me, so that he was leaning 
against my arm. He was so warm. After a minute of 
this, I shrugged out of my rain jacket. He made a little 
sound of contentment in the back of his throat, and 
rested his cheek on the top of my head. I could feel 
the sun heat my skin — thought it was not quite as 
warm as Jacob — and I wondered idly how long it 
would take me to burn. 

Absentmindedly, I twisted my right hand to the side, 
and watched the sunlight glitter subtly off the scar 
James had left there. 

“What are you thinking about?” he murmured. 

“The sun.” 

“Mmm. It’s nice.” 

“What are you thinking about?” I asked. 

He chuckled to himself. “I was remembering that 
moronic movie you took me to. And Mike Newton 
puking all over everything.” 

I laughed, too, surprised by how time had changed 
the memory. It used to be one of stress, of confusion. 
So much had changed that night... . And now I could 
laugh. It was the last night Jacob and I had had 
before he’d learned the truth about his heritage. The 
last human memory. An oddly pleasant memory now. 

“I miss that,” Jacob said. “The way it used to be so 
easy ... uncomplicated. I’m glad I’ve got a good 
memory.” He sighed. 

He felt the sudden tension in my body as his words 
triggered a memory of my own. 



136 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What is it?” he asked. 



“About that good memory of yours ...” I pulled away 
from him so that I could read his face. At the 
moment, it was confused. “Do you mind telling me 
what you were doing Monday morning? You were 
thinking something that bothered Edward.” Bothered 
wasn’t quite the word for it, but I wanted an answer, 
so I thought it was best not to start out too severely. 

Jacob’s face brightened with understanding, and he 
laughed. “I was just thinking about you. Didn’t like 
that much, did he?” 

“Me? What about me?” 

Jacob laughed, with a harder edge this time. “I was 
remembering the way you looked that night Sam 
found you — I’ve seen it in his head, and it’s like I 
was there; that memory has always haunted Sam, 
you know. And then I remembered how you looked 
the first time you came to my place. I bet you don’t 
even realize what a mess you were then, Bella. It was 
weeks before you started to look human again. And I 
remembered how you always used to have your arms 
wrapped around yourself, trying to hold yourself 
together... .” Jacob winced, and then shook his head. 
“It’s hard for me to remember how sad you were, and 
it wasn’t my fault. So I figured it would be harder for 
him. And I thought he ought to get a look at what 
he’d done.” 

I smacked his shoulder. It hurt my hand. “Jacob 
Black, don’t you ever do that again! Promise me you 
won’t.” 

“No way. I haven’t had that much fun in months.” 

“So help me, Jake — ” 

137 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh, get a grip, Bella. When am I ever going to see 
him again? Don’t worry about it.” 

I got to my feet, and he caught my hand as I started 
to walk away. I tried to tug free. 

“I’m leaving, Jacob.” 

“No, don’t go yet,” he protested, his hand tightening 
around mine. “I’m sorry. And ... okay, I won’t do it 
again. Promise.” 

I sighed. “Thanks, Jake.” 

“Come on, we’ll go back to my house,” he said eagerly. 

“Actually, I think I really do need to go. Angela Weber 
is expecting me, and I know Alice is worried. I don’t 
want to upset her too much.” 

“But you just got here!” 

“It feels that way,” I agreed. I glared up at the sun, 
somehow already directly overhead. How had the time 
passed so quickly? 

His eyebrows pulled down over his eyes. “I don’t know 
when I’ll see you again,” he said in a hurt voice. 

“I’ll come back the next time he’s away,” I promised 
impulsively. 

“Away?” Jacob rolled his eyes. “That’s a nice way to 
describe what he’s doing. Disgusting parasites.” 

“If you can’t be nice, I won’t come back at all!” I 
threatened, trying to pull my hand free. He refused to 
let go. 



138 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Aw, don’t be mad,” he said, grinning. “Knee-jerk 
reaction.” 

“If I’m going to try to come back again, you’re going to 
have to get something straight, okay?” 

He waited. 

“See,” I explained. “I don’t care who’s a vampire and 
who’s a werewolf. That’s irrelevant. You are Jacob, 
and he is Edward, and I am Bella. And nothing else 
matters.” 

His eyes narrowed slightly. “But I am a werewolf,” he 
said unwillingly. “And he is a vampire,” he added with 
obvious revulsion. 

“And I’m a Virgo!” I shouted, exasperated. 

He raised his eyebrows, measuring my expression 
with curious eyes. Finally, he shrugged. 

“If you can really see it that way ...” 

“I can. I do.” 

“Okay. Just Bella and Jacob. None of those freaky 
Virgos here.” He smiled at me, the warm, familiar 
smile that I had missed so much. I felt the answering 
smile spread across my face. 

“I’ve really missed you, Jake,” I admitted impulsively. 

“Me, too,” his smile widened. His eyes were happy and 
clear, free for once of the angry bitterness. “More than 
you know. Will you come back soon?” 

“As soon as I can,” I promised. 



139 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




SWITZERLAND 



As I drove home, I wasn't paying much attention to 
the road that shimmered wetly in the sun. I was 
thinking about the flood of information Jacob had 
shared with me, trying to sort it out, to force it all to 
make sense. Despite the overload, I felt lighter. Seeing 
Jacob smile, having all the secrets thrashed out ... it 
didn’t make things perfect, but it made them better. I 
was right to have gone. Jacob needed me. And 
obviously, I thought as I squinted into the glare, there 
was no danger. 

It came out of nowhere. One minute there was 
nothing but bright highway in my rearview mirror. 

The next minute, the sun was glinting off a silver 
Volvo right on my tail. 

“Aw, crap,” I whimpered. 

I considered pulling over. But I was too much of a 
coward to face him right away. I’d been counting on 
some prep time . . . and having Charlie nearby as a 
buffer. At least that would force him to keep his voice 
down. 

The Volvo followed inches behind me. I kept my eyes 
on the road ahead. 

Chicken through and through, I drove straight to 
Angela’s without once meeting the gaze I could feel 
burning a hole in my mirror. 

He followed me until I pulled to the curb in front of 
the Webers’ house. He didn’t stop, and I didn’t look 



140 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



up as he passed. I didn’t want to see the expression 
on his face. I ran up the short concrete walk to 
Angela’s door as soon as he was out of sight. 

Ben answered the door before I could finish knocking, 
like he’d been standing right behind it. 

“Hey, Bella!” he said, surprised. 

“Hi, Ben. Er, is Angela here?” I wondered if Angela 
had forgotten our plans, and cringed at the thought of 
going home early. 

“Sure,” Ben said just as Angela called, “Bella!” and 
appeared at the top of the stairs. 

Ben peered around me as we both heard the sound of 
a car on the road; the sound didn’t scare me — this 
engine stuttered to a stop, followed by the loud pop of 
a backfire. Nothing like the purr of the Volvo. This 
must be the visitor Ben had been waiting for. 

“Austin’s here,” Ben said as Angela reached his side. 

A horn honked on the street. 

“I’ll see you later,” Ben promised. “Miss you already.” 

He threw his arm around Angela’s neck and pulled 
her face down to his height so that he could kiss her 
enthusiastically. After a second of this, Austin honked 
again. 

“Hye, Ang! Love you!” Ben shouted as he dashed past 
me. 

Angela swayed, her face slightly pink, then recovered 
herself and waved until Ben and Austin were out of 
sight. Then she turned to me and grinned ruefully. 

141 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




“Thank you for doing this, Bella,” she said. “From the 
bottom of my heart. Not only are you saving my 
hands from permanent injury, you also just spared 
me two long hours of a plot-less, badly dubbed 
martial arts film.” She sighed in relief. 

“Happy to be of service.” I was feeling a bit less 
panicked, able to breathe a little more evenly. It felt so 
ordinary here. Angela’s easy human dramas were 
oddly reassuring. It was nice to know that life was 
normal somewhere. 

I followed Angela up the stairs to her room. She 
kicked toys out of the way as she went. The house 
was unusually quiet. 

“Where’s your family?” 

“My parents took the twins to a birthday party in Port 
Angeles. I can’t believe you’re really going to help me 
with this. Ben’s pretending he has tendonitis.” She 
made a face. 

“I don’t mind at all,” I said, and then I walked into 
Angela’s room and saw the stacks of waiting 
envelopes. 

“Oh!” I gasped. Angela turned to look at me, apologies 
in her eyes. I could see why she’d been putting this 
off, and why Ben had weaseled out. 

“I thought you were exaggerating,” I admitted. 

“I wish. Are you sure you want to do this?” 

“Put me to work. I’ve got all day.” 

Angela divided a pile in half and put her mother’s 
address book between us on her desk. For a while we 

142 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




concentrated, and there was just the sound of our 
pens scratching quietly across the paper. 

“What’s Edward doing tonight?” she asked after a few 
minutes. 

My pen dug into the envelope I was working on. 
“Emmet’s home for the weekend. They’re supposed to 
be hiking.” 

“You say that like you’re not sure.” 

I shrugged. 

“You’re lucky Edward has his brothers for all the 
hiking and camping. I don’t know what I’d do if Ben 
didn’t have Austin for the guy stuff.” 

“Yeah, the outdoors thing is not really for me. And 
there’s no way I’d ever be able to keep up.” 

Angela laughed. “I prefer the indoors myself.” 

She focused on her pile for a minute. I wrote out four 
more addresses. There was never any pressure to fill 
a pause with meaningless chatter around Angela. 

Like Charlie, she was comfortable with silence. 

But, like Charlie, she was also too observant 
sometimes. 

“Is something wrong?” she asked in a low voice now. 
“You seem ... anxious.” 

I smiled sheepishly. “Is it that obvious?” 

“Not really.” 



She was probably lying to make me feel better. 

143 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You don’t have to talk about it unless you want to,” 
she assured me. “I’ll listen if you think it will help.” 

I was about to say thanks, but no thanks. After all, 
there were just too many secrets I was bound to keep. 
I really couldn’t discuss my problems with someone 
human. That was against the rules. 

And yet, with a strange, sudden intensity, that’s 
exactly what I wanted. I wanted to talk to a normal 
human girlfriend. I wanted to moan a little bit, like 
any other teenage girl. I wanted my problems to be 
that simple. It would also be nice to have someone 
outside the whole vampire-werewolf mess to put 
things in perspective. Someone unbiased. 

“I’ll mind my own business,” Angela promised, smiling 
down at the address she was working on. 

“No,” I said. “You’re right. I am anxious. It’s ... it’s 
Edward.” 

“What’s wrong?” 

It was so easy to talk to Angela. When she asked a 
question like that, I could tell that she wasn’t just 
morbidly curious or looking for gossip, like Jessica 
would have been. She cared that I was upset. 

“Oh, he’s mad at me.” 

“That’s hard to imagine,” she said. “What’s he mad 
about?” 

I sighed. “Do you remember Jacob Black?” 

“Ah,” she said. 

“Yeah.” 

144 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He’s jealous.” 

“No, not jealous ...” I should have kept my mouth 
shut. There was no way to explain this right. But I 
wanted to keep talking anyway. I hadn’t realized I was 
so starved for human conversation. “Edward thinks 
Jacob is ... a bad influence, I guess. Sort of ... 
dangerous. You know how much trouble I got in a few 
months back... . It’s all ridiculous, though.” 

I was surprised to see Angela shaking her head. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Bella, I’ve seen how Jacob Black looks at you. I’d bet 
the real problem is jealousy.” 

“It’s not like that with Jacob.” 

“For you, maybe. But for Jacob ...” 

I frowned. “Jacob knows how I feel. I’ve told him 
everything.” 

“Edward’s only human, Bella. He’s going to react like 
any other boy.” 

I grimaced. I didn’t have a response to that. 

She patted my hand. “He’ll get over it.” 

“I hope so. Jake’s going through kind of a tough time. 
He needs me.” 

“You and Jacob are pretty close, aren’t you?” 

“Like family,” I agreed. 



145 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“And Edward doesn’t like him... . That must be hard. 

I wonder how Ben would handle that?” she mused. 

I half-smiled. “Probably just like any other boy.” 

She grinned. “Probably.” 

Then she changed the subject. Angela wasn’t one to 
pry, and she seemed to sense I wouldn’t — couldn’t — 
say any more. 

“I got my dorm assignment yesterday. The farthest 
building from campus, naturally.” 

“Does Ben know where he’s staying yet?” 

“The closest dorm to campus. He’s got all the luck. 
How about you? Did you decide where you’re going?” 

I stared down, concentrating on the clumsy scrawl of 
my handwriting. For a second I was distracted by the 
thought of Angela and Ben at the University of 
Washington. They would be off to Seattle in just a few 
months. Would it be safe then? Would the wild young 
vampire menace have moved elsewhere? Would there 
be a new place by then, some other city flinching from 
horror-movie headlines? 

Would those new headlines be my fault? 

I tried to shake it off and answered her question a 
beat late. “Alaska, I think. The university there in 
Juneau.” 

I could hear the surprise in her voice. “Alaska? Oh. 
Really? I mean, that’s great. I just figured you’d go 
somewhere ... warmer.” 



146 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I laughed a little, still staring at the envelope. “Yeah. 
Forks has really changed my perspective on life.” 

“And Edward?” 

Though his name set butterflies fluttering in my 
stomach, I looked up and grinned at her. “Alaska’s 
not too cold for Edward, either.” 

She grinned back. “Of course not.” And then she 
sighed. “It’s so far. You won’t be able to come home 
very often. I’ll miss you. Will you e-mail me?” 

A swell of quiet sadness crashed over me; maybe it 
was a mistake to get closer to Angela now. But 
wouldn’t it be sadder still to miss out on these last 
chances? I shook off the unhappy thoughts, so that I 
could answer her teasingly. 

“If I can type again after this.” I nodded toward the 
stack of envelopes I’d done. 

We laughed, and it was easy then to chat cheerfully 
about classes and majors while we finished the rest — 
all I had to do was not think about it. Anyway, there 
were more urgent things to worry about today. 

I helped her put the stamps on, too. I was afraid to 
leave. 

“How’s your hand?” she asked. 

I flexed my fingers. “I think I’ll recover the full use of 
it ... someday.” 

The door banged downstairs, and we both looked up. 
“Ang?” Ben called. 



147 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I tried to smile, but my lips trembled. “I guess that’s 
my cue to leave.” 



“You don’t have to go. Though he’s probably going to 
describe the movie for me ... in detail.” 

“Charlie will be wondering where I am anyway.” 

“Thanks for helping me.” 

“I had a good time, actually. We should do something 
like this again. It was nice to have some girl time.” 

“Definitely.” 

There was a light knock on the bedroom door. 

“Come in, Ben,” Angela said. 

I got up and stretched. 

“Hey, Bella! You survived,” Ben greeted me quickly 
before going to take my place by Angela. He eyed our 
work. “Nice job. Too bad there’s nothing left to do, I 
would have ...” He let the thought trail off, and then 
restarted excitedly. “Ang, I can’t believe you missed 
this one! It was awesome. There was this final fight 
sequence — the choreography was unbelievable! This 
one guy — well, you’re going to have to see it to know 
what I’m talking about — ” 

Angela rolled her eyes at me. 

“See you at school,” I said with a nervous laugh. 

She sighed. “See you.” 

I was jumpy on the way out to my truck, but the 
street was empty. I spent the whole drive glancing 

148 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




anxiously in all my mirrors, but there was never any 
sign of the silver car. 

His car was not in front of the house, either, though 
that meant little. 

“Bella?” Charlie called when I opened the front door. 
“Hey, Dad.” 

I found him in the living room, in front of the TV. 

“So, how was your day?” 

“Good,” I said. Might as well tell him everything — 
he’d hear it from Billy soon enough. Besides, it would 
make him happy. “They didn’t need me at work, so I 
went down to La Push.” 

There wasn’t enough surprise in his face. Billy had 
already talked to him. 

“How’s Jacob?” Charlie asked, attempting to sound 
indifferent. 

“Good,” I said, just as casual. 

“You get over to the Webers’?” 

“Yep. We got all her announcements addressed.” 

“That’s nice.” Charlie smiled a wide smile. He was 
strangely focused, considering that there was a game 
on. “I’m glad you spent some time with your friends 
today.” 

“Me, too.” 



149 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I ambled toward the kitchen, looking for busy work. 
Unfortunately, Charlie had already cleaned up his 
lunch. I stood there for a few minutes, staring at the 
bright patch of light the sun made on the floor. But I 
knew I couldn’t delay this forever. 

“I’m going to go study,” I announced glumly as I 
headed up the stairs. 

“See you later,” Charlie called after me. 

If I survive, I thought to myself. 

I shut my bedroom door carefully before I turned to 
face my room. 

Of course he was there. He stood against the wall 
across from me, in the shadow beside the open 
window. His face was hard and his posture tense. He 
glared at me wordlessly. 

I cringed, waiting for the torrent, but it didn’t come. 

He just continued to glare, possibly too angry to 
speak. 

“Hi,” I finally said. 

His face could have been carved from stone. I counted 
to a hundred in my head, but there was no change. 

“Er ... so, I’m still alive,” I began. 

A growl rumbled low in his chest, but his expression 
didn’t change. 

“No harm done,” I insisted with a shrug. 

He moved. His eyes closed, and he pinched the bridge 
of his nose between the fingers of his right hand. 

150 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella,” he whispered. “Do you have any idea how 
close I came to crossing the line today? To breaking 
the treaty and coming after you? Do you know what 
that would have meant?” 

I gasped and his eyes opened. They were as cold and 
hard as night. 

“You can’t!” I said too loudly. I worked to modulate 
the volume of my voice so Charlie wouldn’t hear, but I 
wanted to shout the words. “Edward, they’d use any 
excuse for a fight. They’d love that. You can’t ever 
break the rules!” 

“Maybe they aren’t the only ones who would enjoy a 
fight.” 

“Don’t you start,” I snapped. “You made the treaty — 
you stick to it.” 

“If he’d hurt you — ” 

“Enough!” I cut him off. “There’s nothing to worry 
about. Jacob isn’t dangerous.” 

“Bella.” He rolled his eyes. “You aren’t exactly the best 
judge of what is or isn’t dangerous.” 

“I know I don’t have to worry about Jake. And neither 
do you.” 

He ground his teeth together. His hands were balled 
up in fists at his sides. He was still standing against 
the wall, and I hated the space between us. 

I took a deep breath, and crossed the room. He didn’t 
move when I wrapped my arms around him. Next to 
the warmth of the last of the afternoon sun streaming 



151 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




through the window, his skin felt especially icy. He 
seemed like ice, too, frozen the way he was. 

“I’m sorry I made you anxious,” I muttered. 

He sighed, and relaxed a little. His arms wound 
around my waist. 

“Anxious is a bit of an understatement,” he 
murmured. “It was a very long day.” 

“You weren’t supposed to know about it,” I reminded 
him. “I thought you’d be hunting longer.” 

I looked up at his face, at his defensive eyes; I hadn’t 
noticed in the stress of the moment, but they were too 
dark. The rings under them were deep purple. I 
frowned in disapproval. 

“When Alice saw you disappear, I came back,” he 
explained. 

“You shouldn’t have done that. Now you’ll have to go 
away again.” My frown intensified. 

“I can wait.” 

“That’s ridiculous. I mean, I know she couldn’t see me 
with Jacob, but you should have known — ” 

“But I didn’t,” he broke in. “And you can’t expect me 
to let you — ” 

“Oh, yes, I can,” I interrupted him. “That’s exactly 
what I expect — ” 

“This won’t happen again.” 



152 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s right! Because you’re not going to overreact 
next time.” 

“Because there isn’t going to be a next time.” 

“I understand when you have to leave, even if I don’t 
like it — ” 

“That’s not the same. I’m not risking my life.” 
“Neither am I.” 

“Werewolves constitute a risk.” 

“I disagree.” 

“I’m not negotiating this, Bella.” 

“Neither am I.” 

His hands were in fists again. I could feel them 
against my back. 

The words popped out thoughtlessly. “Is this really 
just about my safety?” 

“What do you mean?” he demanded. 

“You aren’t ...” Angela’s theory seemed sillier now 
than before. It was hard to finish the thought. “I 
mean, you know better than to be jealous, right?” 

He raised one eyebrow. “Do I?” 

“Be serious.” 

“Easily — there’s nothing remotely humorous about 
this.” 



153 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I frowned suspiciously. “Or ... is this something else 
altogether? Some vampires-and-werewolves-are- 
always-enemies nonsense? Is this just a testosterone- 
fueled — ” 

His eyes blazed. “This is only about you. All I care is 
that you’re safe.” 

The black fire in his eyes was impossible to doubt. 

“Okay,” I sighed. “I believe that. But I want you to 
know something — when it comes to all this enemies 
nonsense, I’m out. I am a neutral country. I am 
Switzerland. I refuse to be affected by territorial 
disputes between mythical creatures. Jacob is family. 
You are ... well, not exactly the love of my life, 
because I expect to love you for much longer than 
that. The love of my existence. I don’t care who’s a 
werewolf and who’s a vampire. If Angela turns out to 
be a witch, she can join the party, too.” 

He stared at me silently through narrowed eyes. 

“Switzerland,” I repeated again for emphasis. 

He frowned at me, and then sighed. “Bella ... ,” he 
began, but he paused, and his nose wrinkled in 
disgust. 

“What now?” 

“Well ... don’t be offended, but you smell like a dog,” 
he told me. 

And then he smiled crookedly, so I knew the fight was 
over. For now. 

Edward had to make up for the missed hunting trip, 
and so he was leaving Friday night with Jasper, 

154 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett, and Carlisle to hit some reserve in Northern 
California with a mountain lion problem. 

We’d come to no agreement on the werewolf issue, but 
I didn’t feel guilty calling Jake — during my brief 
window of opportunity when Edward took the Volvo 
home before climbing back in through my window — 
to let him know I’d be coming over on Saturday again. 
It wasn’t sneaking around. Edward knew how I felt. 
And if he broke my truck again, then I’d have Jacob 
pick me up. Forks was neutral, just like Switzerland 
— just like me. 

So when I got off work Thursday and it was Alice 
rather than Edward waiting for me in the Volvo, I was 
not suspicious at first. The passenger door was open, 
and music I didn’t recognize was shaking the frame 
when the bass played. 

“Hey, Alice,” I shouted over the wailing as I climbed 
in. “Where’s your brother?” 

She was singing along to the song, her voice an octave 
higher than the melody, weaving through it with a 
complicated harmony. She nodded at me, ignoring my 
question as she concentrated on the music. 

I shut my door and put my hands over my ears. She 
grinned, and turned the volume down until it was just 
background. Then she hit the locks and the gas in the 
same second. 

“What’s going on?” I asked, starting to feel uneasy. 
“Where is Edward?” 

She shrugged. “They left early.” 



155 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Oh.” I tried to control the absurd disappointment. If 
he left early, that meant he’d be back sooner, I 
reminded myself. 

“All the boys went, and we’re having a slumber party!” 
she announced in a trilling, singsong voice. 

“A slumber party?” I repeated, the suspicion finally 
settling in. 

“Aren’t you excited?” she crowed. 

I met her animated gaze for a long second. 

“You’re kidnapping me, aren’t you?” 

She laughed and nodded. “Till Saturday. Esme 
cleared it with Charlie; you’re staying with me two 
nights, and I will drive you to and from school 
tomorrow.” 

I turned my face to the window, my teeth grinding 
together. 

“Sorry,” Alice said, not sounding in the least bit 
penitent. “He paid me off.” 

“How?” I hissed through my teeth. 

“The Porsche. It’s exactly like the one I stole in Italy.” 
She sighed happily. “I’m not supposed to drive it 
around Forks, but if you want, we could see how long 
it takes to get from here to L.A. — I bet I could have 
you back by midnight.” 

I took a deep breath. “I think I’ll pass,” I sighed, 
repressing a shudder. 



156 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




We wound, always too fast, down the long drive. Alice 
pulled around to the garage, and I quickly looked over 
the cars. Emmett’s big jeep was there, with a shiny 
canary yellow Porsche between it and Rosalie’s red 
convertible. 

Alice hopped out gracefully and went to stroke her 
hand along the length of her bribe. “Pretty, isn’t it?” 

“Pretty over-the-top,” I grumbled, incredulous. “He 
gave you that just for two days of holding me 
hostage?” 

Alice made a face. 

A second later, comprehension came and I gasped in 
horror. “It’s for every time he’s gone, isn’t it?” 

She nodded. 

I slammed my door and stomped toward the house. 
She danced along next to me, still unrepentant. 

“Alice, don’t you think this is just a little bit 
controlling? Just a tiny bit psychotic, maybe?” 

“Not really.” She sniffed. “You don’t seem to grasp 
how dangerous a young werewolf can be. Especially 
when I can’t see them. Edward has no way to know if 
you’re safe. You shouldn’t be so reckless.” 

My voice turned acidic. “Yes, because a vampire 
slumber party is the pinnacle of safety conscious 
behavior.” 

Alice laughed. “I’ll give you a pedicure and 
everything,” she promised. 



157 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It wasn’t so bad, except for the fact that I was being 
held against my will. Esme brought Italian food — the 
good stuff, all the way from Port Angeles — and Alice 
was prepared with my favorite movies. Even Rosalie 
was there, quietly in the background. Alice did insist 
on the pedicure, and I wondered if she was working 
from a list — maybe something she’d compiled from 
watching bad sitcoms. 

“How late do you want to stay up?” she asked when 
my toenails were glistening a bloody red. Her 
enthusiasm remained untouched by my mood. 

“I don’t want to stay up. We have school in the 
morning.” 

She pouted. 

“Where am I supposed to sleep, anyway?” I measured 
the couch with my eyes. It was a little short. “Can’t 
you just keep me under surveillance at my house?” 

“What kind of a slumber party would that be?” Alice 
shook her head in exasperation. “You’re sleeping in 
Edward’s room.” 

I sighed. His black leather sofa was longer than this 
one. Actually, the gold carpet in his room was 
probably thick enough that the floor wouldn’t be half 
bad either. 

“Can I go back to my place to get my things, at least?” 
She grinned. “Already taken care of.” 

“Am I allowed to use your phone?” 

“Charlie knows where you are.” 



158 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I wasn’t going to call Charlie.” I frowned. “Apparently, 
I have some plans to cancel.” 

“Oh.” She deliberated. “I’m not sure about that.” 

“Alice!” I whined loudly. “C’mon!” 

“Okay, okay,” she said, flitting from the room. She 
was back in half a second, cell phone in hand. “He 
didn’t specifically prohibit this ... ,” she murmured to 
herself as she handed it to me. 

I dialed Jacob’s number, hoping he wasn’t out 
running with his friends tonight. Luck was with me — 
Jacob was the one to answer. 

“Hello?” 

“Hey, Jake, it’s me.” Alice watched me with 
expressionless eyes for a second, before she turned 
and went to sit between Rosalie and Esme on the 
sofa. 

“Hi, Bella,” Jacob said, suddenly cautious. “What’s 
up?” 

“Nothing good. I can’t come over Saturday after all.” 

It was silent for a minute. “Stupid bloodsucker,” he 
finally muttered. “I thought he was leaving. Can’t you 
have a life when he’s gone? Or does he lock you in a 
coffin?” 

I laughed. 

“I don’t think that’s funny.” 



159 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm only laughing because you’re close,” I told him. 
“But he’s going to be here Saturday, so it doesn’t 
matter.” 

“Will he be feeding there in Forks, then?” Jacob asked 
cuttingly. 

“No.” I didn’t let myself get irritated with him. I wasn’t 
that far from being as angry as he was. “He left early.” 

“Oh. Well, hey, come over now, then,” he said with 
sudden enthusiasm. “It’s not that late. Or I’ll come up 
to Charlie’s.” 

“I wish. I’m not at Charlie’s,” I said sourly. “I’m kind 
of being held prisoner.” 

He was silent as that sunk in, and then he growled. 
“Well come and get you,” he promised in a flat voice, 
slipping automatically into a plural. 

A chill slid down my spine, but I answered in a light 
and teasing voice. “Tempting. I have been tortured — 
Alice painted my toenails.” 

“I’m serious.” 

“Don’t be. They’re just trying to keep me safe.” 

He growled again. 

“I know it’s silly, but their hearts are in the right 
place.” 

“Their hearts!” he scoffed. 

“Sorry about Saturday,” I apologized. “I’ve got to hit 
the sack” — the couch, I corrected mentally — “but I’ll 
call you again soon.” 

160 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Are you sure they’ll let you?” he asked in a scathing 
tone. 



“Not completely.” I sighed. “’Night, Jake.” 

“See you around.” 

Alice was abruptly at my side, her hand held out for 
the phone, but I was already dialing. She saw the 
number. 

“I don’t think he’ll have his phone on him,” she said. 
“I’ll leave a message.” 

The phone rang four times, followed by a beep. There 
was no greeting. 

“You are in trouble,” I said slowly, emphasizing each 
word. “Enormous trouble. Angry grizzly bears are 
going to look tame next to what is waiting for you at 
home.” 

I snapped the phone shut and placed it in her waiting 
hand. “I’m done.” 

She grinned. “This hostage stuff is fun.” 

“I’m going to sleep now,” I announced, heading for the 
stairs. Alice tagged along. 

“Alice,” I sighed. “I’m not going to sneak out. You 
would know if I was planning to, and you’d catch me 
if I tried.” 

“I’m just going to show you where your things are,” 
she said innocently. 



161 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s room was at the farthest end of the third 
floor hallway, hard to mistake even when the huge 
house had been less familiar. But when I switched the 
light on, I paused in confusion. Had I picked the 
wrong door? 

Alice giggled. 

It was the same room, I realized quickly; the furniture 
had just been rearranged. The couch was pushed to 
the north wall and the stereo shoved up against the 
vast shelves of CDs — to make room for the colossal 
bed that now dominated the central space. 

The southern wall of glass reflected the scene back 
like a mirror, making it look twice as bad. 

It matched. The coverlet was a dull gold, just lighter 
than the walls; the frame was black, made of 
intricately patterned wrought iron. Sculpted metal 
roses wound in vines up the tall posts and formed a 
bowery lattice overhead. My pajamas were folded 
neatly on the foot of the bed, my bag of toiletries to 
one side. 

“What the hell is all this?” I spluttered. 

“You didn’t really think he would make you sleep on 
the couch, did you?” 

I mumbled unintelligibly as I stalked forward to 
snatch my things off the bed. 

“I’ll give you some privacy,” Alice laughed. “See you in 
the morning.” 

After my teeth were brushed and I was dressed, I 
grabbed a puffy feather pillow off the huge bed and 
dragged the gold cover to the couch. I knew I was 

162 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




being silly, but I didn’t care. Porsches as bribes and 
king-sized beds in houses where nobody slept — it 
was beyond irritating. I flipped off the lights and 
curled up on the sofa, wondering if I was too annoyed 
to sleep. 

In the dark, the glass wall was no longer a black 
mirror, doubling the room. The light of the moon 
brightened the clouds outside the window. As my eyes 
adjusted, I could see the diffused glow highlighting 
the tops of the trees, and glinting off a small slice of 
the river. I watched the silver light, waiting for my 
eyes to get heavy. 

There was a light knock on the door. 

“What, Alice?” I hissed. I was on the defensive, 
imagining her amusement when she saw my 
makeshift bed. 

“It’s me,” Rosalie said softly, opening the door enough 
that I could see the silver glow touch her perfect face. 
“Can I come in?” 



163 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




UNHAPPY ENDING 



7 



Rosalie hesitated in the doorway, her breathtaking 
face unsure. 

“Of course,” I replied, my voice an octave high with 
surprise. “Come on in.” 

I sat up, sliding to the end of the sofa to make room. 
My stomach twisted nervously as the one Cullen who 
did not like me moved silently to sit down in the open 
space. I tried to come up with a reason why she 
would want to see me, but my mind was a blank on 
that point. 

“Do you mind talking to me for a few minutes?” she 
asked. “I didn’t wake you or anything, did I?” Her eyes 
shifted to the stripped bed and back to my couch. 

“No, I was awake. Sure, we can talk.” I wondered if 
she could hear the alarm in my voice as clearly as I 
could. 

She laughed lightly, and it sounded like a chorus of 
bells. “He so rarely leaves you alone,” she said. “I 
figured I’d better make the best of this opportunity.” 

What did she want to say that couldn’t be said in 
front of Edward? My hands twisted and untwisted 
around the edge of the comforter. 

“Please don’t think I’m horribly interfering,” Rosalie 
said, her voice gentle and almost pleading. She folded 
her hands in her lap and looked down at them as she 
spoke. “I’m sure I’ve hurt your feelings enough in the 
past, and I don’t want to do that again.” 

164 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



“Don’t worry about it, Rosalie. My feelings are great. 
What is it?” 



She laughed again, sounding oddly embarrassed. “I’m 
going to try to tell you why I think you should stay 
human — why I would stay human if I were you.” 

“Oh.” 

She smiled at the shocked tone of my voice, and then 
she sighed. 

“Did Edward ever tell you what led to this?” she 
asked, gesturing to her glorious immortal body. 

I nodded slowly, suddenly somber. “He said it was 
close to what happened to me that time in Port 
Angeles, only no one was there to save you.” I 
shuddered at the memory. 

“Is that really all he told you?” she asked. 

“Yes,” I said, my voice blank with confusion. “Was 
there more?” 

She looked up at me and smiled; it was a harsh, 
bitter — but still stunning — expression. 

“Yes,” she said. “There was more.” 

I waited while she stared out the window. She seemed 
to be trying to calm herself. 

“Would you like to hear my story, Bella? It doesn’t 
have a happy ending — but which of ours does? If we 
had happy endings, we’d all be under gravestones 
now.” 



165 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I nodded, though I was frightened by the edge in her 
voice. 

“I lived in a different world than you do, Bella. My 
human world was a much simpler place. It was 
nineteen thirty-three. I was eighteen, and I was 
beautiful. My life was perfect.” 

She stared out the window at the silver clouds, her 
expression far away. 

“My parents were thoroughly middle class. My father 
had a stable job in a bank, something I realize now 
that he was smug about — he saw his prosperity as a 
reward for talent and hard work, rather than 
acknowledging the luck involved. I took it all for 
granted then; in my home, it was as if the Great 
Depression was only a troublesome rumor. Of course 
I saw the poor people, the ones who weren’t as lucky. 
My father left me with the impression that they’d 
brought their troubles on themselves. 

“It was my mother’s job to keep our house — and 
myself and my two younger brothers — in spotless 
order. It was clear that I was both her first priority 
and her favorite. I didn’t fully understand at the time, 
but I was always vaguely aware that my parents 
weren’t satisfied with what they had, even if it was so 
much more than most. They wanted more. They had 
social aspirations — social climbers, I suppose you 
could call them. My beauty was like a gift to them. 
They saw so much more potential in it than I did. 

“They weren’t satisfied, but I was. I was thrilled to be 
me, to be Rosalie Hale. Pleased that men’s eyes 
watched me everywhere I went, from the year I turned 
twelve. Delighted that my girlfriends sighed with envy 
when they touched my hair. Happy that my mother 



166 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




was proud of me and that my father liked to buy me 
pretty dresses. 



“I knew what I wanted out of life, and there didn’t 
seem to be any way that I wouldn’t get exactly what I 
wanted. I wanted to be loved, to be adored. I wanted 
to have a huge, flowery wedding, where everyone in 
town would watch me walk down the aisle on my 
father’s arm and think I was the most beautiful thing 
they’d ever seen. Admiration was like air to me, Bella. 

I was silly and shallow, but I was content.” She 
smiled, amused at her own evaluation. 

“My parents’ influence had been such that I also 
wanted the material things of life. I wanted a big 
house with elegant furnishings that someone else 
would clean and a modern kitchen that someone else 
would cook in. As I said, shallow. Young and very 
shallow. And I didn’t see any reason why I wouldn’t 
get these things. 

“There were a few things I wanted that were more 
meaningful. One thing in particular. My very closest 
friend was a girl named Vera. She married young, just 
seventeen. She married a man my parents would 
never have considered for me — a carpenter. A year 
later she had a son, a beautiful little boy with dimples 
and curly black hair. It was the first time I’d ever felt 
truly jealous of anyone else in my entire life.” 

She looked at me with unfathomable eyes. “It was a 
different time. I was the same age as you, but I was 
ready for it all. I yearned for my own little baby. I 
wanted my own house and a husband who would kiss 
me when he got home from work — just like Vera. 
Only I had a very different kind of house in mind... .” 

It was hard for me to imagine the world that Rosalie 
had known. Her story sounded more like a fairy tale 

167 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




than history to me. With a slight shock, I realized that 
this was very close to the world that Edward would 
have experienced when he was human, the world he 
had grown up in. I wondered — while Rosalie sat 
silent for a moment — if my world seemed as baffling 
to him as Rosalie’s did to me? 

Rosalie sighed, and when she spoke again her voice 
was different, the wistfulness gone. 

“In Rochester, there was one royal family — the 
Kings, ironically enough. Royce King owned the bank 
my father worked at, and nearly every other really 
profitable business in town. That’s how his son, 

Royce King the Second” — her mouth twisted around 
the name, it came out through her teeth — “saw me 
the first time. He was going to take over at the bank, 
and so he began overseeing the different positions. 
Two days later, my mother conveniently forgot to send 
my father’s lunch to work with him. I remember being 
confused when she insisted that I wear my white 
organza and roll my hair up just to run over to the 
bank.” Rosalie laughed without humor. 

“I didn’t notice Royce watching me particularly. 
Everyone watched me. But that night the first of the 
roses came. Every night of our courtship, he sent a 
bouquet of roses to me. My room was always 
overflowing with them. It got to the point that I would 
smell like roses when I left the house. 

“Royce was handsome, too. He had lighter hair than I 
did, and pale blue eyes. He said my eyes were like 
violets, and then those started showing up alongside 
the roses. 

“My parents approved — that’s putting it mildly. This 
was everything they’d dreamed of. And Royce seemed 
to be everything I’d dreamed of. The fairy tale prince, 

168 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




come to make me a princess. Everything I wanted, yet 
it was still no more than I expected. We were engaged 
before I’d known him for two months. 

“We didn’t spend a great deal of time alone with each 
other. Royce told me he had many responsibilities at 
work, and, when we were together, he liked people to 
look at us, to see me on his arm. I liked that, too. 
There were lots of parties, dancing, and pretty 
dresses. When you were a King, every door was open 
for you, every red carpet rolled out to greet you. 

“It wasn’t a long engagement. Plans went ahead for 
the most lavish wedding. It was going to be everything 
I’d ever wanted. I was completely happy. When I 
called at Vera’s, I no longer felt jealous. I pictured my 
fair-haired children playing on the huge lawns of the 
Kings’ estate, and I pitied her.” 

Rosalie broke off suddenly, clenching her teeth 
together. It pulled me out of her story, and I realized 
that the horror was not far off. There would be no 
happy ending, as she’d promised. I wondered if this 
was why she had so much more bitterness in her 
than the rest of them — because she’d been within 
reach of everything she’d wanted when her human life 
was cut short. 

“I was at Vera’s that night,” Rosalie whispered. Her 
face was smooth as marble, and as hard. “Her little 
Henry really was adorable, all smiles and dimples — 
he was just sitting up on his own. Vera walked me to 
the door as I was leaving, her baby in her arms and 
her husband at her side, his arm around her waist. 

He kissed her on the cheek when he thought I wasn’t 
looking. That bothered me. When Royce kissed me, it 
wasn’t quite the same — not so sweet somehow... . I 
shoved that thought aside. Royce was my prince. 
Someday, I would be queen.” 

169 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It was hard to tell in the moonlight, but it looked like 
her bone white face got paler. 

“It was dark in the streets, the lamps already on. I 
hadn’t realized how late it was.” She continued to 
whisper almost inaudibly. “It was cold, too. Very cold 
for late April. The wedding was only a week away, and 
I was worrying about the weather as I hurried home 
— I can remember that clearly. I remember every 
detail about that night. I clung to it so hard ... in the 
beginning. I thought of nothing else. And so I 
remember this, when so many pleasant memories 
have faded away completely... .” 

She sighed, and began whispering again. “Yes, I was 
worrying about the weather... . I didn’t want to have 
to move the wedding indoors... . 

“I was a few streets from my house when I heard 

them. A cluster of men under a broken streetlamp, 
laughing too loud. Drunk. I wished I’d called my 
father to escort me home, but the way was so short, it 
seemed silly. And then he called my name. 

‘“Rose!’ he yelled, and the others laughed stupidly. 

“I hadn’t realized the drunks were so well dressed. It 
was Royce and some of his friends, sons of other rich 
men. 

‘“Here’s my Rose!’ Royce shouted, laughing with them, 
sounding just as stupid. You ’re late. We’re cold, 
you’ve kept us waiting so long.’” 

“I’d never seen him drink before. A toast, now and 

then, at a party. He’d told me he didn’t like 
champagne. I hadn’t realized that he preferred 
something much stronger. 



170 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He had a new friend — the friend of a friend, come 
up from Atlanta. 



“What did I tell you, John,’ Royce crowed, grabbing 
my arm and pulling me closer. ‘Isn’t she lovelier than 
all your Georgia peaches?’ 

“The man named John was dark-haired and 
suntanned. He looked me over like I was a horse he 
was buying. 

“‘It’s hard to tell,’ he drawled slowly. ‘She’s all covered 
up.’ 

“They laughed, Royce like the rest. 

“Suddenly, Royce ripped my jacket from my shoulders 
— it was a gift from him — popping the brass buttons 
off. They scattered all over the street. 

“‘Show him what you look like, Rose!’ He laughed 
again and then he tore my hat out of my hair. The 
pins wrenched my hair from the roots, and I cried out 
in pain. They seemed to enjoy that — the sound of my 
pain... .” 

Rosalie looked at me suddenly, as if she’d forgotten I 
was there. I was sure my face was as white as hers. 
Unless it was green. 

“I won’t make you listen to the rest,” she said quietly. 
“They left me in the street, still laughing as they 
stumbled away. They thought I was dead. They were 
teasing Royce that he would have to find a new bride. 
He laughed and said he’d have to learn some patience 
first. 

“I waited in the road to die. It was cold, though there 
was so much pain that I was surprised it bothered 

171 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




me. It started to snow, and I wondered why I wasn’t 
dying. I was impatient for death to come, to end the 
pain. It was taking so long. . . . 

“Carlisle found me then. He’d smelled the blood, and 
come to investigate. I remember being vaguely 
irritated as he worked over me, trying to save my life. 
I’d never liked Dr. Cullen or his wife and her brother 
— as Edward pretended to be then. It had upset me 
that they were all more beautiful than I was, 
especially that the men were. But they didn’t mingle 
in society, so I’d only seen them once or twice. 

“I thought I’d died when he pulled me from the 
ground and ran with me — because of the speed — it 
felt like I was flying. I remembered being horrified that 
the pain didn’t stop... . 

“Then I was in a bright room, and it was warm. I was 
slipping away, and I was grateful as the pain began to 
dull. But suddenly something sharp was cutting me, 
my throat, my wrists, my ankles. I screamed in 
shock, thinking he’d brought me there to hurt me 
more. Then fire started burning through me, and I 
didn’t care about anything else. I begged him to kill 
me. When Esme and Edward returned home, I begged 
them to kill me, too. Carlisle sat with me. He held my 
hand and said that he was so sorry, promising that it 
would end. He told me everything, and sometimes I 
listened. He told me what he was, what I was 
becoming. I didn’t believe him. He apologized each 
time I screamed. 

“Edward wasn’t happy. I remember hearing them 
discuss me. I stopped screaming sometimes. It did no 
good to scream. 

“What were you thinking, Carlisle?’ Edward said. 
‘Rosalie Hale?”’ Rosalie imitated Edward’s irritated 

172 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




tone to perfection. “I didn’t like the way he said my 
name, like there was something wrong with me. 

“‘I couldn’t just let her die,’ Carlisle said quietly. ‘It 
was too much — too horrible, too much waste.’ 

“‘I know,’ Edward said, and I thought he sounded 
dismissive. It angered me. I didn’t know then that he 
really could see exactly what Carlisle had seen. 

“‘It was too much waste. I couldn’t leave her,’ Carlisle 
repeated in a whisper. 

“‘Of course you couldn’t,’ Esme agreed. 

‘“People die all the time,’ Edward reminded him in a 
hard voice. ‘Don’t you think she’s just a little 
recognizable, though? The Kings will have to put up a 
huge search — not that anyone suspects the fiend,’ 
he growled. 

“It pleased me that they seemed to know that Royce 
was guilty. 

“I didn’t realize that it was almost over — that I was 
getting stronger and that was why I was able to 
concentrate on what they were saying. The pain was 
beginning to fade from my fingertips. 

‘“What are we going to do with her?’ Edward said 
disgustedly — or that’s how it sounded to me, at 
least. 

“Carlisle sighed. That’s up to her, of course. She may 
want to go her own way. ’ 

“I’d believed enough of what he’d told me that his 
words terrified me. I knew that my life was ended, 



173 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




and there was no going back for me. I couldn’t stand 
the thought of being alone... . 



“The pain finally ended and they explained to me 
again what I was. This time I believed. I felt the thirst, 
my hard skin; I saw my brilliant red eyes. 

“Shallow as I was, I felt better when I saw my 
reflection in the mirror the first time. Despite the 
eyes, I was the most beautiful thing I’d ever seen.” 

She laughed at herself for a moment. “It took some 
time before I began to blame the beauty for what had 
happened to me — for me to see the curse of it. To 
wish that I had been ... well, not ugly, but normal. 

Like Vera. So I could have been allowed to marry 
someone who loved me, and have pretty babies. 

That’s what I’d really wanted, all along. It still doesn’t 
seem like too much to have asked for.” 

She was thoughtful for a moment, and I wondered if 
she’d forgotten my presence again. But then she 
smiled at me, her expression suddenly triumphant. 

“You know, my record is almost as clean as 
Carlisle’s,” she told me. “Better than Esme. A 
thousand times better than Edward. I’ve never tasted 
human blood,” she announced proudly. 

She understood my puzzled expression as I wondered 
why her record was only almost as clean. 

“I did murder five humans,” she told me in a 
complacent tone. “If you can really call them human. 
But I was very careful not to spill their blood — I 
knew I wouldn’t be able to resist that, and I didn’t 
want any part of them in me, you see. 

“I saved Royce for last. I hoped that he would hear of 
his friends’ deaths and understand, know what was 

174 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




coming for him. I hoped the fear would make the end 
worse for him. I think it worked. He was hiding inside 
a windowless room behind a door as thick as a bank 
vault’s, guarded outside by armed men, when I 
caught up with him. Oops — seven murders,” she 
corrected herself. “I forgot about his guards. They 
only took a second.” 

“I was overly theatrical. It was kind of childish, really. 

I wore a wedding dress I’d stolen for the occasion. He 
screamed when he saw me. He screamed a lot that 
night. Saving him for last was a good idea — it made 
it easier for me to control myself, to make it slower — ” 

She broke off suddenly, and she glanced down at me. 
“I’m sorry,” she said in a chagrined voice. “I’m 
frightening you, aren’t I?” 

“I’m fine,” I lied. 

“I got carried away.” 

“Don’t worry about it.” 

“I’m surprised Edward didn’t tell you more about it.” 

“He doesn’t like to tell other people’s stories — he 
feels like he’s betraying confidences, because he hears 
so much more than just the parts they mean for him 
to hear.” 

She smiled and shook her head. “I probably ought to 
give him more credit. He’s really quite decent, isn’t 
he?” 

“I think so.” 



175 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I can tell.” Then she sighed. “I haven’t been fair to 
you, either, Bella. Did he tell you why? Or was that 
too confidential?” 

“He said it was because I was human. He said it was 
harder for you to have someone on the outside who 
knew.” 

Rosalie’s musical laughter interrupted me. “Now I 
really feel guilty. He’s been much, much kinder to me 
than I deserve.” She seemed warmer as she laughed, 
like she’d let down some guard that had never been 
absent in my presence before. “What a liar that boy 
is.” She laughed again. 

“He was lying?” I asked, suddenly wary. 

“Well, that’s probably putting it too strongly. He just 
didn’t tell you the whole story. What he told you was 
true, even truer now than it was before. However, at 
the time ...” She broke off, chuckling nervously. “It’s 
embarrassing. You see, at first, I was mostly jealous 
because he wanted you and not me.” 

Her words sent a thrill of fear through me. Sitting 
there in the silver light, she was more beautiful than 
anything else I could imagine. I could not compete 
with Rosalie. 

“But you love Emmett ... ,” I mumbled. 

She shook her head back and forth, amused. “I don’t 
want Edward that way, Bella. I never did — I love him 
as a brother, but he’s irritated me from the first 
moment I heard him speak. You have to understand, 
though ... I was so used to people wanting me. And 
Edward wasn’t the least bit interested. It frustrated 
me, even offended me in the beginning. But he never 
wanted anyone, so it didn’t bother me long. Even 
176 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




when we first met Tanya’s clan in Denali — all those 
females! — Edward never showed the slightest 
preference. And then he met you.” She looked at me 
with confused eyes. I was only half paying attention. I 
was thinking about Edward and Tanya and all those 
females, and my lips pressed together in a hard line. 

“Not that you aren’t pretty, Bella,” she said, 
misreading my expression. “But it just meant that he 
found you more attractive than me. I’m vain enough 
that I minded.” 

“But you said ‘at first.’ That doesn’t still ... bother 
you, does it? I mean, we both know you’re the most 
beautiful person on the planet.” 

I laughed at having to say the words — it was so 
obvious. How odd that Rosalie should need such 
reassurances. 

Rosalie laughed, too. “Thanks, Bella. And no, it 
doesn’t really bother me anymore. Edward has always 
been a little strange.” She laughed again. 

“But you still don’t like me,” I whispered. 

Her smile faded. “I’m sorry about that.” 

We sat in silence for a moment, and she didn’t seem 
inclined to go on. 

“Would you tell me why? Did I do something ... ?” 

Was she angry that I’d put her family — her Emmett 
— in danger? Time and time again. James, and now 
Victoria ... 

“No, you haven’t done anything,” she murmured. “Not 
yet.” 



177 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at her, perplexed. 



“Don’t you see, Bella?” Her voice was suddenly more 
passionate than before, even while she’d told her 
unhappy story. “You already have everything. You 
have a whole life ahead of you — everything I want. 
And you’re going to just throw it away. Can’t you see 
that I’d trade everything I have to be you? You have 
the choice that I didn’t have, and you’re choosing 
wrong!” 

I flinched back from her fierce expression. I realized 
my mouth had fallen open and I snapped it shut. 

She stared at me for a long moment and, slowly, the 
fervor in her eyes dimmed. Abruptly, she was 
abashed. 

“And I was so sure that I could do this calmly.” She 
shook her head, seeming a little dazed by the flood of 
emotion. “It’s just that it’s harder now than it was 
then, when it was no more than vanity.” 

She stared at the moon in silence. It was a few 
moments before I was brave enough to break into her 
reverie. 

“Would you like me better if I chose to stay human?” 

She turned back to me, her lips twitching into a hint 
of a smile. “Maybe.” 

“You did get some of your happy ending, though,” I 
reminded her. “You got Emmett.” 

“I got half.” She grinned. “You know that I saved 
Emmett from a bear that was mauling him, and 
carried him home to Carlisle. But can you guess why 
I stopped the bear from eating him?” 

178 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I shook my head. 



“With the dark curls ... the dimples that showed even 
while he was grimacing in pain . . . the strange 
innocence that seemed so out of place on a grown 
man’s face ... he reminded me of Vera’s little Henry. I 
didn’t want him to die — so much that, even though I 
hated this life, I was selfish enough to ask Carlisle to 
change him for me. 

“I got luckier than I deserved. Emmett is everything I 
would have asked for if I’d known myself well enough 
to know what to ask for. He’s exactly the kind of 
person someone like me needs. And, oddly enough, he 
needs me, too. That part worked out better than I 
could have hoped. But there will never be more than 
the two of us. And I’ll never sit on a porch somewhere, 
with him gray-haired by my side, surrounded by our 
grandchildren . ” 

Her smile was kind now. “That sounds quite bizarre 
to you, doesn’t it? In some ways, you are much more 
mature than I was at eighteen. But in other ways ... 
there are many things you’ve probably never thought 
about seriously. You’re too young to know what you’ll 
want in ten years, fifteen years — and too young to 
give it all up without thinking it through. You don’t 
want to be rash about permanent things, Bella.” She 
patted my head, but the gesture didn’t feel 
condescending. 

I sighed. 

“Just think about it a little. Once it’s done, it can’t be 
undone. Esme’s made do with us as substitutes ... 
and Alice doesn’t remember anything human so she 
can’t miss it... . You will remember, though. It’s a lot 
to give up.” 



179 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




But more to get in return, I didn’t say aloud. “Thanks, 
Rosalie. It’s nice to understand ... to know you 
better.” 



“I apologize for being such a monster.” She grinned. 
“I’ll try to behave myself from now on.” 

I grinned back at her. 

We weren’t friends yet, but I was pretty sure she 
wouldn’t always hate me so much. 

“I’ll let you sleep now.” Rosalie’s eyes flickered to the 
bed, and her lips twitched. “I know you’re frustrated 
that he’s keeping you locked up like this, but don’t 
give him too bad a time when he gets back. He loves 
you more than you know. It terrifies him to be away 
from you.” She got up silently and ghosted to the 
door. “Goodnight, Bella,” she whispered as she shut it 
behind herself. 

“Goodnight, Rosalie,” I murmured a second too late. 

It took me a long time to fall asleep after that. 

When I did sleep, I had a nightmare. I was crawling 
across the dark, cold stones of an unfamiliar street, 
under lightly falling snow, leaving a trail of blood 
smeared behind me. A shadowy angel in a long white 
dress watched my progress with resentful eyes. 

The next morning, Alice drove me to school while I 
stared grumpily out the windshield. I was feeling 
sleep-deprived, and it made the irritation of my 
imprisonment that much stronger. 

“Tonight we’ll go out to Olympia or something,” she 
promised. “That would be fun, right?” 



180 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why don’t you just lock me in the basement,” I 
suggested, “and forget the sugar coating?” 

Alice frowned. “He’s going to take the Porsche back. 
I’m not doing a very good job. You’re supposed to be 
having fun.” 

“It’s not your fault,” I muttered. I couldn’t believe I 
actually felt guilty. “I’ll see you at lunch.” 

I trudged off to English. Without Edward, the day was 
guaranteed to be unbearable. I sulked through my 
first class, well aware that my attitude wasn’t helping 
anything. 

When the bell rang, I got up without much 
enthusiasm. Mike was there at the door, holding it 
open for me. 

“Edward hiking this weekend?” he asked sociably as 
we walked out into the light rain. 

“Yeah.” 

“You want to do something tonight?” 

How could he still sound hopeful? 

“Can’t. I’ve got a slumber party,” I grumbled. He gave 
me a strange look as he processed my mood. 

“Who are you — ” 

Mike’s question was cut short as a loud, growling roar 
erupted from behind us in the parking lot. Everyone 
on the sidewalk turned to look, staring in disbelief as 
the noisy black motorcycle screeched to a stop on the 
edge of the concrete, the engine still snarling. 



181 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob waved to me urgently. 

“Run, Bella!” he yelled over the engine’s roar. 

I was frozen for a second before I understood. 

I looked at Mike quickly. I knew I only had seconds. 

How far would Alice go to restrain me in public? 

“I got really sick and went home, okay?” I said to 
Mike, my voice filled with sudden excitement. 

“Fine,” he muttered. 

I pecked Mike swiftly on the cheek. “Thanks, Mike. I 
owe you one!” I called as I sprinted away. 

Jacob revved his engine, grinning. I jumped on the 
back of his seat, wrapping my arms tightly around his 
waist. 

I caught sight of Alice, frozen at the edge of the 
cafeteria, her eyes sparking with fury, her lip curled 
back over her teeth. 

I shot her one pleading glance. 

Then we were racing across the blacktop so fast that 
my stomach got lost somewhere behind me. 

“Hold on,” Jacob shouted. 

I hid my face in his back as he sped down the 
highway. I knew he would slow down when we hit the 
Quileute border. I just had to hold on till then. I 
prayed silently and fervently that Alice wouldn’t 
follow, and that Charlie wouldn’t happen to see me... . 



182 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It was obvious when we had reached the safe zone. 
The bike slowed, and Jacob straightened up and 
howled with laughter. I opened my eyes. 

“We made it,” he shouted. “Not bad for a prison 
break, eh?” 

“Good thinking, Jake.” 

“I remembered what you said about the psychic leech 
not being about to predict what I’m going to do. I’m 
glad you didn’t think of this — she wouldn’t have let 
you go to school.” 

“That’s why I didn’t consider it.” 

He laughed triumphantly. “What do you want to do 
today?” 

“Anything!” I laughed back. It felt great to be free. 



183 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





We ended up on the beach again, wandering 
aimlessly. Jacob was still full of himself for 
engineering my escape. 

“Do you think they’ll come looking for you?” he asked, 
sounding hopeful. 

“No.” I was certain about that. “They’re going to be 
furious with me tonight, though.” 

He picked up a rock and chucked it into the waves. 
“Don’t go back, then,” he suggested again. 

“Charlie would love that,” I said sarcastically. 

“I bet he wouldn’t mind.” 

I didn’t answer. Jacob was probably right, and that 
made me grind my teeth together. Charlie’s blatant 
preference for my Quileute friends was so unfair. I 
wondered if he would feel the same if he knew the 
choice was really between vampires and werewolves. 

“So what’s the latest pack scandal?” I asked lightly. 

Jacob skidded to a halt, and he stared down at me 
with shocked eyes. 

“What? That was a joke.” 

“Oh.” He looked away. 

I waited for him to start walking again, but he seemed 
lost in thought. 

184 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



“Is there a scandal?” I wondered. 



Jacob chuckled once. “I forget what it’s like, not 
having everyone know everything all the time. Having 
a quiet, private place inside my head.” 

We walked along the stony beach quietly for a few 
minutes. 

“So what is it?” I finally asked. “That everyone in your 
head already knows?” 

He hesitated for a moment, as if he weren’t sure how 
much he was going to tell me. Then he sighed and 
said, “Quil imprinted. That’s three now. The rest of us 
are starting to get worried. Maybe it’s more common 
than the stories say... .” He frowned, and then turned 
to stare at me. He gazed into my eyes without 
speaking, his eyebrows furrowed in concentration. 

“What are you staring at?” I asked, feeling self- 
conscious. 

He sighed. “Nothing.” 

Jacob started walking again. Without seeming to 
think about it, he reached out and took my hand. We 
paced silently across the rocks. 

I thought of how we must look walking hand and 
hand down the beach — like a couple, certainly — 
and wondered if I should object. But this was the way 
it had always been with Jacob... . No reason to get 
worked up about it now. 

“Why is Quil’s imprinting such a scandal?” I asked 
when it didn’t look like he was going to go on. “Is it 
because he’s the newest one?” 



185 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That doesn’t have anything to do with it.” 



“Then what’s the problem?” 

“It’s another one of those legend things. I wonder 
when we’re going to stop being surprised that they’re 
all true?” he muttered to himself. 

“Are you going to tell me? Or do I have to guess?” 

“You’d never get it right. See, Quil hasn’t been 
hanging out with us, you know, until just recently. So 
he hadn’t been around Emily’s place much.” 

“Quil imprinted on Emily, too?” I gasped. 

“No! I told you not to guess. Emily had her two nieces 
down for a visit ... and Quil met Claire.” 

He didn’t continue. I thought about that for a 
moment. 

“Emily doesn’t want her niece with a werewolf? That’s 
a little hypocritical,” I said. 

But I could understand why she of all people might 
feel that way. I thought again of the long scars that 
marred her face and extended all the way down her 
right arm. Sam had lost control just once when he 
was standing too close to her. Once was all it took... . 
I’d seen the pain in Sam’s eyes when he looked at 
what he’d done to Emily. I could understand why 
Emily might want to protect her niece from that. 

“Would you please stop guessing? You’re way off. 
Emily doesn’t mind that part, it’s just, well, a little 
early.” 

“What do you mean early?” 

186 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob appraised me with narrowed eyes. “Try not to 
be judgmental, okay?” 

I nodded cautiously. 

“Claire is two,” Jacob told me. 

Rain started to fall. I blinked furiously as the drops 
pelted my face. 

Jacob waited in silence. He wore no jacket, as usual; 
the rain left a spatter of dark spots on his black T- 
shirt, and dripped through his shaggy hair. His face 
was expressionless as he watched mine. 

“Quil ... imprinted ... with a two-year-old?” I was 
finally able to ask. 

“It happens.” Jacob shrugged. He bent to grab 
another rock and sent it flying out into the bay. “Or 
so the stories say.” 

“But she’s a baby,” I protested. 

He looked at me with dark amusement. “Quil’s not 
getting any older,” he reminded me, a bit of acid in 
his tone. “He’ll just have to be patient for a few 
decades.” 

“I ... don’t know what to say.” 

I was trying my hardest not to be critical, but, in 
truth, I was horrified. Until now, nothing about the 
werewolves had bothered me since the day I’d found 
out they weren’t committing the murders I’d 
suspected them of. 

“You’re making judgments,” he accused. “I can see it 
on your face.” 

187 I P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sorry,” I muttered. “But it sounds really creepy.” 

“It’s not like that; you’ve got it all wrong,” Jacob 
defended his friend, suddenly vehement. “I’ve seen 
what it’s like, through his eyes. There’s nothing 
romantic about it at all, not for Quil, not now.” He 
took a deep breath, frustrated. “It’s so hard to 
describe. It’s not like love at first sight, really. It’s 
more like ... gravity moves. When you see her, 
suddenly it’s not the earth holding you here anymore. 
She does. And nothing matters more than her. And 
you would do anything for her, be anything for her. . . . 
You become whatever she needs you to be, whether 
that’s a protector, or a lover, or a friend, or a brother. 

“Quil will be the best, kindest big brother any kid ever 
had. There isn’t a toddler on the planet that will be 
more carefully looked after than that little girl will be. 
And then, when she’s older and needs a friend, he’ll 
be more understanding, trustworthy, and reliable 
than anyone else she knows. And then, when she’s 
grown up, they’ll be as happy as Emily and Sam.” A 
strange, bitter edge sharpened his tone at the very 
end, when he spoke of Sam. 

“Doesn’t Claire get a choice here?” 

“Of course. But why wouldn’t she choose him, in the 
end? Hell be her perfect match. Like he was designed 
for her alone.” 

We walked in silence for a moment, till I paused to 
toss a rock toward the ocean. It fell to the beach 
several meters short. Jacob laughed at me. 

“We can’t all be freakishly strong,” I muttered. 

He sighed. 



188 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“When do you think it will happen for you?” I asked 
quietly. 

His answer was flat and immediate. “Never.” 

“It’s not something you can control, is it?” 

He was silent for a few minutes. Unconsciously, we 
both walked slower, barely moving at all. 

“It’s not supposed to be,” he admitted. “But you have 
to see her — the one that’s supposedly meant for 
you.” 

“And you think that if you haven’t seen her yet, then 
she’s not out there?” I asked skeptically. “Jacob, you 
haven’t really seen much of the world — less than me, 
even.” 

“No, I haven’t,” he said in a low voice. He looked at my 
face with suddenly piercing eyes. “But I’ll never see 
anyone else, Bella. I only see you. Even when I close 
my eyes and try to see something else. Ask Quil or 
Embry. It drives them all crazy.” 

I dropped my eyes to the rocks. 

We weren’t walking anymore. The only sound was of 
the waves beating against the shore. I couldn’t hear 
the rain over their roar. 

“Maybe I’d better go home,” I whispered. 

“No!” he protested, surprised by this conclusion. 

I looked up at him again, and his eyes were anxious 
now. 



189 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You have the whole day off, right? The bloodsucker 
won’t be home yet.” 

I glared at him. 

“No offense intended,” he said quickly. 

“Yes, I have the whole day. But, Jake ...” 

He held up his hands. “Sorry,” he apologized. “I won’t 
be like that anymore. I’ll just be Jacob.” 

I sighed. “But if that’s what you’re thinking ...” 

“Don’t worry about me,” he insisted, smiling with 
deliberate cheer, too brightly. “I know what I’m doing. 
Just tell me if I’m upsetting you.” 

“I don’t know... .” 

“C’mon, Bella. Let’s go back to the house and get our 
bikes. You’ve got to ride a motorcycle regularly to 
keep it in tune.” 

“I really don’t think I’m allowed.” 

“By who? Charlie or the blood — or him?” 

“Both.” 

Jacob grinned my grin, and he was suddenly the 
Jacob I missed the most, sunny and warm. 

I couldn’t help grinning back. 

The rain softened, turned to mist. 

“I won’t tell anyone,” he promised. 



190 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Except every one of your friends.” 

He shook his head soberly and raised his right hand. 

“I promise not to think about it.” 

I laughed. “If I get hurt, it was because I tripped.” 

“Whatever you say.” 

We rode our motorcycles on the back roads around La 
Push until the rain made them too muddy and Jacob 
insisted that he was going to pass out if he didn’t eat 
soon. Billy greeted me easily when we got to the 
house, as if my sudden reappearance meant nothing 
more complicated than that I’d wanted to spend the 
day with my friend. After we ate the sandwiches 
Jacob made, we went out to the garage and I helped 
him clean up the bikes. I hadn’t been here in months 
— since Edward had returned — but there was no 
sense of import to it. It was just another afternoon in 
the garage. 

“This is nice,” I commented when he pulled the warm 
sodas from the grocery bag. “I’ve missed this place.” 

He smiled, looking around at the plastic sheds bolted 
together over our heads. “Yeah, I can understand 
that. All the splendor of the Taj Mahal, without the 
inconvenience and expense of traveling to India.” 

“To Washington’s little Taj Mahal,” I toasted, holding 
up my can. 

He touched his can to mine. 

“Do you remember last Valentine’s Day? I think that 
was the last time you were here — the last time when 
things were still ... normal, I mean.” 



191 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I laughed. “Of course I remember. I traded a lifetime 
of servitude for a box of conversation hearts. That’s 
not something I’m likely to forget.” 

He laughed with me. “That’s right. Hmm, servitude. 

I’ll have to think of something good.” Then he sighed. 
“It feels like it was years ago. Another era. A happier 
one.” 

I couldn’t agree with him. This was my happy era 
now. But I was surprised to realize how many things I 
missed from my own personal dark ages. I stared 
through the opening at the murky forest. The rain 
had picked up again, but it was warm in the little 
garage, sitting next to Jacob. He was as good as a 
furnace. 

His fingers brushed my hand. “Things have really 
changed.” 

“Yeah,” I said, and then I reached out and patted the 
back tire of my bike. “Charlie used to like me. I hope 
Billy doesn’t say anything about today... .” I bit my 

lip- 

“He won’t. He doesn’t get worked up about things the 
way Charlie does. Hey, I never did apologize officially 
for that stupid move with the bike. I’m real sorry 
about ratting you out to Charlie. I wish I hadn’t.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Me, too.” 

“I’m really, really sorry.” 

He looked at me hopefully, his wet, tangled black hair 
sticking up in every direction around his pleading 
face. 

“Oh, fine! You’re forgiven.” 

192 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thanks, Bells!” 



We grinned at each other for a second, and then his 
face clouded over. 

“You know that day, when I brought the bike over . . . 
I’ve been wanting to ask you something,” he said 
slowly. “But also ... not wanting to.” 

I held very still — a reaction to stress. It was a habit 
I’d picked up from Edward. 

“Were you just being stubborn because you were mad 
at me, or were you really serious?” he whispered. 

“About what?” I whispered back, though I was sure I 
knew what he meant. 

He glared at me. “You know. When you said it was 
none of my business ... if — if he bit you.” He cringed 
visibly at the end. 

“Jake ...” My throat felt swollen. I couldn’t finish. 

He closed his eyes and took a deep breath. “Were you 
serious?” 

He was trembling just slightly. His eyes stayed closed. 
“Yes,” I whispered. 

Jacob inhaled, slow and deep. “I guess I knew that.” 

I stared at his face, waiting for his eyes to open. 

“You know what this will mean?” He demanded 
suddenly. “You do understand that, don’t you? What 
will happen if they break the treaty?” 



193 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well leave first,” I said in a small voice. 



His eyes flashed open, their black depths full of anger 
and pain. “There wasn’t a geographic limit to the 
treaty, Bella. Our great-grandfathers only agreed to 
keep the peace because the Cullens swore that they 
were different, that humans weren’t in danger from 
them. They promised they would never kill or change 
anyone ever again. If they go back on their word, the 
treaty is meaningless, and they are no different than 
any other vampires. Once that’s established, when we 
find them again — ” 

“But, Jake, didn’t you break the treaty already?” I 
asked, grasping at straws. “Wasn’t part of it that you 
not tell people about the vampires? And you told me. 
So isn’t the treaty sort of moot, anyhow?” 

Jacob didn’t like the reminder; the pain in his eyes 
hardened into animosity. “Yeah, I broke the treaty — 
back before I believed any of it. And I’m sure they 
were informed of that.” He glared sourly at my 
forehead, not meeting my shamed gaze. “But it’s not 
like that gives them a freebie or anything. There’s no 
fault for a fault. They have only one option if they 
object to what I did. The same option we’ll have when 
they break the treaty: to attack. To start the war.” 

He made it sound so inevitable. I shuddered. 

“Jake, it doesn’t have to be that way.” 

His teeth ground together. “It is that way.” 

The silence after his declaration felt very loud. 

“Will you never forgive me, Jacob?” I whispered. As 
soon as I said the words, I wished I hadn’t. I didn’t 
want to hear his answer. 

194 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You won’t be Bella anymore,” he told me. “My friend 
won’t exist. There’ll be no one to forgive.” 

“That sounds like a no,” I whispered. 

We faced each other for an endless moment. 

“Is this goodbye then, Jake?” 

He blinked rapidly, his fierce expression melting in 
surprise. “Why? We still have a few years. Can’t we be 
friends until we’re out of time?” 

“Years? No, Jake, not years.” I shook my head, and 
laughed once without humor. “Weeks is more 
accurate.” 

I was not expecting his reaction. 

He was suddenly on his feet, and there was a loud 
pop as the soda can exploded in his hand. Soda flew 
everywhere, soaking me, like it was spraying from a 
hose. 

“Jake!” I started to complain, but I fell silent when I 
realized that his whole body was quivering with anger. 
He glared at me wildly, a growling sound building in 
his chest. 

I froze in place, too shocked to remember how to 
move. 

The shaking rolled through him, getting faster, until it 
looked like he was vibrating. His shape blurred... . 

And then Jacob gritted his teeth together, and the 
growling stopped. He squeezed his eyes tight in 
concentration; the quivering slowed until only his 
hands were shaking. 

195 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Weeks,” Jacob said in a flat monotone. 



I couldn’t respond; I was still frozen. 

He opened his eyes. They were beyond fury now. 

“He’s going to change you into a filthy bloodsucker in 
just a few weeks!” Jacob hissed through his teeth. 

Too stunned to take offense at his words, I just 
nodded mutely. 

His face turned green under the russet skin. 

“Of course, Jake,” I whispered after a long minute of 
silence. “He’s seventeen, Jacob. And I get closer to 
nineteen every day. Besides, what’s the point in 
waiting? He’s all I want. What else can I do?” 

I’d meant that as a rhetorical question. 

His words cracked like snaps of a whip. “Anything. 
Anything else. You’d be better off dead. I’d rather you 
were.” 

I recoiled like he’d slapped me. It hurt worse than if 
he had. 

And then, as the pain shot through me, my own 
temper burst into flame. 

“Maybe you’ll get lucky,” I said bleakly, lurching to my 
feet. “Maybe I’ll get hit by a truck on my way back.” 

I grabbed my motorcycle and pushed it out into the 
rain. He didn’t move as I passed him. As soon as I 
was on the small, muddy path, I climbed on and 
kicked the bike to life. The rear tire spit a fountain of 
mud toward the garage, and I hoped that it hit him. 

196 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I got absolutely soaked as I sped across the slick 
highway toward the Cullens’ house. The wind felt like 
it was freezing the rain against my skin, and my teeth 
were chattering before I was halfway there. 

Motorcycles were too impractical for Washington. I 
would sell the stupid thing first chance I got. 

I walked the bike into the Cullens’ cavernous garage 
and was unsurprised to find Alice waiting for me, 
perched lightly on the hood of her Porsche. Alice 
stroked the glossy yellow paint. 

“I haven’t even had a chance to drive it.” She sighed. 

“Sorry,” I spit through my rattling teeth. 

“You look like you could use a hot shower,” she said, 
offhand, as she sprang lightly to her feet. 

“Yep.” 

She pursed her lips, taking in my expression 
carefully. “Do you want to talk about it?” 

“Nope.” 

She nodded in assent, but her eyes were raging with 
curiosity. 

“Do you want to go to Olympia tonight?” 

“Not really. Can’t I go home?” 

She grimaced. 

“Never mind, Alice,” I said. “I’ll stay if it makes things 
easier for you.” 



197 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thanks,” she sighed in relief. 

I went to bed early that night, curling up on his sofa 
again. 

It was still dark when I woke. I was groggy, but I knew 
it wasn’t near morning yet. My eyes closed, and I 
stretched, rolling over. It took me a second before I 
realized that the movement should have dumped me 
onto the floor. And that I was much too comfortable. 

I rolled back over, trying to see. It was darker than 
last night — the clouds were too thick for the moon to 
shine through. 

“Sorry,” he murmured so softly that his voice was 
part of the darkness. “I didn’t mean to wake you.” 

I tensed, waiting for the fury — both his and mine — 
but it was only quiet and calm in the darkness of his 
room. I could almost taste the sweetness of reunion in 
the air, a separate fragrance from the perfume of his 
breath; the emptiness when we were apart left its own 
bitter aftertaste, something I didn’t consciously notice 
until it was removed. 

There was no friction in the space between us. The 
stillness was peaceful — not like the calm before the 
tempest, but like a clear night untouched by even the 
dream of a storm. 

And I didn’t care that I was supposed to be angry with 
him. I didn’t care that I was supposed to be angry 
with everyone. I reached out for him, found his hands 
in the darkness, and pulled myself closer to him. His 
arms encircled me, cradling me to his chest. My lips 
searched, hunting along his throat, to his chin, till I 
finally found his lips. 



198 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward kissed me softly for a moment, and then he 
chuckled. 

“I was all braced for the wrath that was going to put 
grizzlies to shame, and this is what I get? I should 
infuriate you more often.” 

“Give me a minute to work up to it,” I teased, kissing 
him again. 

“I’ll wait as long as you want,” he whispered against 
my lips. His fingers knotted in my hair. 

My breath was becoming uneven. “Maybe in the 
morning.” 

“Whatever you prefer.” 

“Welcome home,” I said while his cold lips pressed 
under my jaw. “I’m glad you came back.” 

“That’s a very good thing.” 

“Mmm,” I agreed, tightening my arms around his 
neck. 

His hand curved around my elbow, moving slowly 
down my arm, across my ribs and over my waist, 
tracing along my hip and down my leg, around my 
knee. He paused there, his hand curling around my 
calf. He pulled my leg up suddenly, hitching it around 
his hip. 

I stopped breathing. This wasn’t the kind of thing he 
usually allowed. Despite his cold hands, I felt 
suddenly warm. His lips moved in the hollow at the 
base of my throat. 



199 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Not to bring on the ire prematurely,” he whispered, 
“but do you mind telling me what it is about this bed 
that you object to?” 

Before I could answer, before I could even concentrate 
enough to make sense of his words, he rolled to the 
side, pulling me on top of him. He held my face in his 
hands, angling it up so that his mouth could reach 
my throat. My breathing was too loud — it was almost 
embarrassing, but I couldn’t care quite enough to be 
ashamed. 

“The bed?” he asked again. “I think it’s nice.” 

“It’s unnecessary,” I managed to gasp. 

He pulled my face back to his, and my lips shaped 
themselves around his. Slowly this time, he rolled till 
he hovered over me. He held himself carefully so that 
I felt none of his weight, but I could feel the cool 
marble of his body press against mine. My heart was 
hammering so loudly that it was hard to hear his 
quiet laughter. 

“That’s debatable,” he disagreed. “This would be 
difficult on a couch.” 

Cold as ice, his tongue lightly traced the shape of my 
lips. 

My head was spinning — the air was coming too fast 
and shallow. 

“Did you change your mind?” I asked breathlessly. 
Maybe he’d rethought all his careful rules. Maybe 
there was more significance to this bed than I’d 
originally guessed. My heart pounded almost 
painfully as I waited for his answer. 



200 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward sighed, rolling back so that we were on our 
sides again. 

“Don’t be ridiculous, Bella,” he said, disapproval 
strong in his voice — clearly, he understood what I 
meant. “I was just trying to illustrate the benefits of 
the bed you don’t seem to like. Don’t get carried 
away.” 

“Too late,” I muttered. “And I like the bed,” I added. 

“Good.” I could hear the smile in his voice as he 
kissed my forehead. “I do, too.” 

“But I still think it’s unnecessary,” I continued. “If 
we’re not going to get carried away, what’s the point?” 

He sighed again. “For the hundredth time, Bella — it’s 
too dangerous.” 

“I like danger,” I insisted. 

“I know.” There was a sour edge to his voice, and I 
realized that he would have seen the motorcycle in 
the garage. 

“I’ll tell you what’s dangerous,” I said quickly, before 
he could move to a new topic of discussion. “I’m going 
to spontaneously combust one of these days — and 
you’ll have no one but yourself to blame.” 

He started to push me away. 

“What are you doing?” I objected, clinging to him. 

“Protecting you from combustion. If this too much for 
you... .” 

“I can handle it,” I insisted. 

201 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He let me worm myself back into the circle of his 
arms. 

“I’m sorry I gave you the wrong impression,” he said. 
“I didn’t mean to make you unhappy. That wasn’t 
nice.” 

“Actually, it was very, very nice.” 

He took a deep breath. “Aren’t you tired? I should let 
you sleep.” 

“No, I’m not. I don’t mind if you want to give me the 
wrong impression again.” 

“That’s probably a bad idea. You’re not the only one 
who gets carried away.” 

“Yes, I am,” I grumbled. 

He chuckled. “You have no idea, Bella. It doesn’t help 
that you are so eager to undermine my self-control, 
either.” 

“I’m not going to apologize for that.” 

“Can I apologize?” 

“For what?” 

“You were angry with me, remember?” 

“Oh, that.” 

“I’m sorry. I was wrong. It’s much easier to have the 
proper perspective when I have you safely here.” His 
arms tightened around me. “I go a little berserk when 
I try to leave you. I don’t think I’ll go so far again. It’s 
not worth it.” 

202 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I smiled. “Didn’t you find any mountain lions?” 

“Yes, I did, actually. Still not worth the anxiety. I’m 
sorry I had Alice hold you hostage, though. That was 
a bad idea.” 

“Yes,” I agreed. 

“I won’t do it again.” 

“Okay,” I said easily. He was already forgiven. “But 
slumber parties do have their advantages... .” I curled 
myself closer to him, pressing my lips into the 
indentation over his collarbone. “You can hold me 
hostage any time you want.” 

“Mmm,” he sighed. “I may take you up on that.” 

“So is it my turn now?” 

“Your turn?” his voice was confused. 

“To apologize.” 

“What do you have to apologize for?” 

“Aren’t you mad at me?” I asked blankly. 

“No.” 

It sounded like he really meant it. 

I felt my eyebrows pull together. “Didn’t you see Alice 
when you got home?” 

“Yes — why?” 

“Are you going to take her Porsche back?” 



203 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course not. It was a gift.” 

I wished I could see his expression. His voice sounded 
as if I’d insulted him. 

“Don’t you want to know what I did?” I asked, starting 
to be puzzled by his apparent lack of concern. 

I felt him shrug. “I’m always interested in everything 
you do — but you don’t have to tell me unless you 
want to.” 

“But I went to La Push.” 

“I know.” 

“And I ditched school.” 

“So did I.” 

I stared toward the sound of his voice, tracing his 
features with my fingers, trying to understand his 
mood. “Where did all this tolerance come from?” I 
demanded. 

He sighed. 

“I decided that you were right. My problem before was 
more about my ... prejudice against werewolves than 
anything else. I’m going to try to be more reasonable 
and trust your judgment. If you say it’s safe, then I’ll 
believe you.” 

“Wow.” 

“And ... most importantly ... I’m not willing to let this 
drive a wedge between us.” 



204 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I rested my head against his chest and closed my 
eyes, totally content. 

“So,” he murmured in a casual tone. “Did you make 
plans to go back to La Push again soon?” 

I didn’t answer. His question brought back the 
memory of Jacob’s words, and my throat was 
suddenly tight. 

He misread my silence and the tension in my body. 

“Just so that I can make my own plans,” he explained 
quickly. “I don’t want you to feel like you have to 
hurry back because I’m sitting around waiting for 
you.” 

“No,” I said in a voice that sounded strange to me. “I 
don’t have plans go back.” 

“Oh. You don’t have to do that for me.” 

“I don’t think I’m welcome anymore,” I whispered. 

“Did you run over someone’s cat?” he asked lightly. I 
knew he didn’t want to force the story out of me, but I 
could hear the curiosity burning behind his words. 

“No.” I took a deep breath, and then mumbled quickly 
through the explanation. “I thought Jacob would have 
realized ... I didn’t think it would surprise him.” 

Edward waited while I hesitated. 

“He wasn’t expecting ... that it was so soon.” 

“Ah,” Edward said quietly. 



205 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He said he’d rather see me dead.” My voice broke on 
the last word. 

Edward was too still for a moment, controlling 
whatever reaction he didn’t want me to see. 

Then he crushed me gently to his chest. “I’m so 
sorry.” 

“I thought you’d be glad,” I whispered. 

“Glad over something that’s hurt you?” he murmured 
into my hair. “I don’t think so, Bella.” 

I sighed and relaxed, fitting myself to the stone shape 
of him. But he was motionless again, tense. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. 

“It’s nothing.” 

“You can tell me.” 

He paused for a minute. “It might make you angry.” 

“I still want to know.” 

He sighed. “I could quite literally kill him for saying 
that to you. I want to.” 

I laughed halfheartedly. “I guess it’s a good thing 
you’ve got so much self-control.” 

“I could slip.” His tone was thoughtful. 

“If you’re going to have a lapse in control, I can think 
of a better place for it.” I reached for his face, trying to 
pull myself up to kiss him. His arms held me tighter, 
restraining. 

206 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He sighed. “Must I always be the responsible one?” 



I grinned in the darkness. “No. Let me be in charge of 
responsibility for a few minutes ... or hours.” 

“Goodnight, Bella.” 

“Wait — there was something else I wanted to ask you 
about.” 

“What’s that?” 

“I was talking to Rosalie last night... .” 

His body tensed again. “Yes. She was thinking about 
that when I got in. She gave you quite a lot to 
consider, didn’t she?” 

His voice was anxious, and I realized that he thought 
I wanted to talk about the reasons Rosalie ’d given me 
for staying human. But I was interested in something 
much more pressing. 

“She told me a little bit . . . about the time your family 
lived in Denali.” 

There was a short pause; this beginning took him by 
surprise. “Yes?” 

“She mentioned something about a bunch of female 
vampires ... and you.” 

He didn’t answer, though I waited for a long moment. 

“Don’t worry,” I said, after the silence had grown 
uncomfortable. “She told me you didn’t ... show any 
preference. But I was just wondering, you know, if 
any of them had. Shown a preference for you, I 
mean.” 

207 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Again he said nothing. 

“Which one?” I asked, trying to keep my voice casual, 
and not quite managing. “Or was there more than 
one?” 

No answer. I wished I could see his face, so I could try 
to guess what this silence meant. 

“Alice will tell me,” I said. “I’ll go ask her right now.” 

His arms tightened; I was unable to squirm even an 
inch away. 

“It’s late,” he said. His voice had a little edge to it that 
was something new. Sort of nervous, maybe a little 
embarrassed. “Besides, I think Alice stepped out... .” 

“It’s bad,” I guessed. “It’s really bad, isn’t it?” I started 
to panic, my heart accelerating as I imagined the 
gorgeous immortal rival I’d never realized I had. 

“Calm down, Bella,” he said, kissing the tip of my 
nose. “You’re being absurd.” 

“Am I? Then why won’t you tell me?” 

“Because there’s nothing to tell. You’re blowing this 
wildly out of proportion.” 

“Which one?” I insisted. 

He sighed. “Tanya expressed a little interest. I let her 
know, in a very courteous, gentlemanly fashion, that I 
did not return that interest. End of story.” 

I kept my voice as even as possible. “Tell me 
something — what does Tanya look like?” 



208 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Just like the rest of us — white skin, gold eyes,” he 
answered too quickly. 

“And, of course, extraordinarily beautiful.” 

I felt him shrug. 

“I suppose, to human eyes,” he said, indifferent. “You 
know what, though?” 

“What?” My voice was petulant. 

He put his lips right to my ear; his cold breath 
tickled. “I prefer brunettes.” 

“She’s a blonde. That figures.” 

“Strawberry blonde — not at all my type.” 

I thought about that for a while, trying to concentrate 
as his lips moved slowly along my cheek, down my 
throat, and back up again. He made the circuit three 
times before I spoke. 

“I guess that’s okay, then,” I decided. 

“Hmm,” he whispered against my skin. “You’re quite 
adorable when you’re jealous. It’s surprisingly 
enjoyable.” 

I scowled into the darkness. 

“It’s late,” he said again, murmuring, almost crooning 
now, his voice smoother than silk. “Sleep, my Bella. 
Dream happy dreams. You are the only one who has 
ever touched my heart. It will always be yours. Sleep, 
my only love.” 



209 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He started to hum my lullaby, and I knew it was only 
a matter of time till I succumbed, so I closed my eyes 
and snuggled closer into his chest. 



210 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




TARGET 



Alice dropped me off in the morning, in keeping with 
the slumber party charade. It wouldn’t be long until 
Edward showed up, officially returning from his 
“hiking” trip. All of the pretenses were starting to wear 
on me. I wouldn’t miss this part of being human. 

Charlie peeked through the front window when he 
heard me slam the car door. He waved to Alice, and 
then went to get the door for me. 

“Did you have fun?” Charlie asked. 

“Sure, it was great. Very ... girlie.” 

I carried my stuff in, dumped it all at the foot of the 
stairs, and wandered into the kitchen to look for a 
snack. 

“You’ve got a message,” Charlie called after me. 

On the kitchen counter, the phone message pad was 
propped up conspicuously against a saucepan. 

Jacob called, Charlie had written. 

He said he didn’t mean it, and that he’s sorry. He 
wants you to call him. Be nice and give him a break. 
He sounded upset. 

I grimaced. Charlie didn’t usually editorialize on my 
messages. 

Jacob could just go ahead and be upset. I didn’t want 
to talk to him. Last I’d heard, they weren’t big on 

211 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 



allowing phone calls from the other side. If Jacob 
preferred me dead, then maybe he should get used to 
the silence. 

My appetite evaporated. I turned an about face and 
went to put my things away. 

“Aren’t you going to call Jacob?” Charlie asked. He 
was leaning around the living room wall, watching me 
pick up. 

“No.” 

I started up the stairs. 

“That’s not very attractive behavior, Bella,” he said. 
“Forgiveness is divine.” 

“Mind your own business,” I muttered under my 
breath, much too low for him to hear. 

I knew the laundry was building up, so after I put my 
toothpaste away and threw my dirty clothes in the 
hamper, I went to strip Charlie’s bed. I left his sheets 
in a pile at the top of the stairs and went to get mine. 

I paused beside the bed, cocking my head to the side. 

Where was my pillow? I turned in a circle, scanning 
the room. No pillow. I noticed that my room looked 
oddly tidy. Hadn’t my gray sweatshirt been draped 
over the low bedpost on the footboard? And I would 
swear there had been a pair of dirty socks behind the 
rocking chair, along with the red blouse I’d tried on 
two mornings ago, but decided was too dressy for 
school, hanging over the arm... . I spun around again. 
My hamper wasn’t empty, but it wasn’t overflowing, 
the way I thought it had been. 



212 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Was Charlie doing laundry? That was out of 
character. 

“Dad, did you start the wash?” I shouted out my door. 

“Um, no,” he shouted back, sounding guilty. “Did you 
want me to?” 

“No, I got it. Were you looking for something in my 
room?” 

“No. Why?” 

“I can’t find ... a shirt... .” 

“I haven’t been in there.” 

And then I remembered that Alice had been here to 
get my pajamas. I hadn’t noticed that she’d borrowed 
my pillow, too — probably since I’d avoided the bed. It 
looked like she had cleaned while she was passing 
through. I blushed for my slovenly ways. 

But that red shirt really wasn’t dirty, so I went to save 
it from the hamper. 

I expected to find it near the top, but it wasn’t there. I 
dug through the whole pile and still couldn’t find it. I 
knew I was probably getting paranoid, but it seemed 
like something else was missing, or maybe more than 
one something. I didn’t even have half a load here. 

I ripped my sheets off and headed for the laundry 
closet, grabbing Charlie’s on the way. The washing 
machine was empty. I checked the dryer, too, half- 
expecting to find a washed load waiting for me, 
courtesy of Alice. Nothing. I frowned, mystified. 



213 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Did you find what you were looking for?” Charlie 
yelled. 

“Not yet.” 

I went back upstairs to search under my bed. Nothing 
but dust bunnies. I started to dig through my dresser. 
Maybe I’d put the red shirt away and forgotten. 

I gave up when the doorbell rang. That would be 
Edward. 

“Door,” Charlie informed me from the couch as I 
skipped past him. 

“Don’t strain yourself, Dad.” 

I pulled the door open with a big smile on my face. 

Edward’s golden eyes were wide, his nostrils flared, 
his lips pulled back over his teeth. 

“Edward?” My voice was sharp with shock as I read 
his expression. “What — ?” 

He put his finger to my lips. “Give me two seconds,” 
he whispered. “Don’t move.” 

I stood frozen on the doorstep and he ... disappeared. 
He moved so quickly that Charlie wouldn’t even have 
seen him pass. 

Before I could compose myself enough to count to 
two, he was back. He put his arm around my waist 
and pulled me swiftly toward the kitchen. His eyes 
darted around the room, and he held me against his 
body as if he were shielding me from something. I 
threw a glance toward Charlie on the couch, but he 
was studiously ignoring us. 

214 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Someone’s been here,” he murmured in my ear after 
he pulled me to the back of the kitchen. His voice was 
strained; it was difficult to hear him over the 
thumping of the washing machine. 

“I swear that no werewolves — ” I started to say. 

“Not one of them,” he interrupted me quickly, shaking 
his head. “One of us.” 

His tone made it clear that he didn’t mean a member 
of his family. 

I felt the blood empty from my face. 

“Victoria?” I choked. 

“It’s not a scent I recognize.” 

“One of the Volturi,” I guessed. 

“Probably.” 

“When?” 

“That’s why I think it must have been them — it 
wasn’t long ago, early this morning while Charlie was 
sleeping. And whoever it was didn’t touch him, so 
there must have been another purpose.” 

“Looking for me.” 

He didn’t answer. His body was frozen, a statue. 

“What are you two hissing about in here?” Charlie 
asked suspiciously, rounding the corner with an 
empty popcorn bowl in his hands. 



215 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I felt green. A vampire had been in the house looking 
for me while Charlie slept. Panic overwhelmed me, 
closed my throat. I couldn’t answer, I just stared at 
him in horror. 

Charlie’s expression changed. Abruptly, he was 
grinning. “If you two are having a fight ... well, don’t 
let me interrupt.” 

Still grinning, he put his bowl in the sink and 
sauntered out of the room. 

“Let’s go,” Edward said in a low hard voice. 

“But Charlie!” The fear was squeezing my chest, 
making it hard to breathe. 

He deliberated for a short second, and then his phone 
was in his hand. 

“Emmett,” he muttered into the receiver. He began 
talking so fast that I couldn’t understand the words. 

It was over in half a minute. He started pulling me 
toward the door. 

“Emmett and Jasper are on their way,” he whispered 
when he felt my resistance. “They’ll sweep the woods. 
Charlie is fine.” 

I let him drag me along then, too panicked to think 
clearly. Charlie met my frightened eyes with a smug 
grin, which suddenly turned to confusion. Edward 
had me out the door before Charlie could say 
anything. 

“Where are we going?” I couldn’t stop whispering, 
even after we were in the car. 



216 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“We’re going to talk to Alice,” he told me, his volume 
normal but his voice bleak. 



“You think maybe she saw something?” 

He stared at the road through narrowed eyes. 

“Maybe.” 

They were waiting for us, on alert after Edward’s call. 
It was like walking into a museum, everyone still as 
statues in various poses of stress. 

“What happened?” Edward demanded as soon as we 
were through the door. I was shocked to see that he 
was glowering at Alice, his hands fisted in anger. 

Alice stood with her arms folded tight across her 
chest. Only her lips moved. “I have no idea. I didn’t 
see anything.” 

“How is that possible?” he hissed. 

“Edward,” I said, a quiet reproof. I didn’t like him 
talking to Alice this way. 

Carlisle interrupted in a calming voice. “It’s not an 
exact science, Edward.” 

“He was in her room, Alice. He could have still been 
there — waiting for her.” 

“I would have seen that.” 

Edward threw his hands up in exasperation. “Really? 
You’re sure?” 

Alice’s voice was cold when she answered. “You’ve 
already got me watching the Volturis’ decisions, 
watching for Victoria’s return, watching Bella’s every 

217 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




step. You want to add another? Do I just have to 
watch Charlie, or Bella’s room, or the house, or the 
whole street, too? Edward, if I try to do too much, 
things are going to start slipping through the cracks.” 

“It looks like they already are,” Edward snapped. 

“She was never in any danger. There was nothing to 
see.” 

“If you’re watching Italy, why didn’t you see them 
send — ” 

“I don’t think it’s them,” Alice insisted. “I would have 
seen that.” 

“Who else would leave Charlie alive?” 

I shuddered. 

“I don’t know,” Alice said. 

“Helpful.” 

“Stop it, Edward,” I whispered. 

He turned on me, his face still livid, his teeth 
clenched together. He glared at me for half a second, 
and then, suddenly, he exhaled. His eyes widened 
and his jaw relaxed. 

“You’re right, Bella. I’m sorry.” He looked at Alice. 
“Forgive me, Alice. I shouldn’t be taking this out on 
you. That was inexcusable.” 

“I understand,” Alice assured him. “I’m not happy 
about it, either.” 



218 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward took a deep breath. “Okay, let’s look at this 
logically. What are the possibilities?” 

Everyone seemed to thaw out at once. Alice relaxed 
and leaned against the back of the couch. Carlisle 
walked slowly toward her, his eyes far away. Esme sat 
on the sofa in front of Alice, curling her legs up on the 
seat. Only Rosalie remained unmoving, her back to 
us, staring out the glass wall. 

Edward pulled me to the sofa and I sat next to Esme, 
who shifted to put her arm around me. He held one of 
my hands tightly in both of his. 

“Victoria?” Carlisle asked. 

Edward shook his head. “No. I didn’t know the scent. 
He might have been from the Volturi, someone I’ve 
never met... .” 

Alice shook her head. “Aro hasn’t asked anyone to 
look for her yet. I will see that. I’m waiting for it.” 

Edward’s head snapped up. “You’re watching for an 
official command.” 

“You think someone’s acting on their own? Why?” 

“Caius’s idea,” Edward suggested, his face tightening 
again. 

“Or Jane’s ... ,” Alice said. “They both have the 
resources to send an unfamiliar face... .” 

Edward scowled. “And the motivation.” 

“It doesn’t make sense, though,” Esme said. “If 
whoever it was meant to wait for Bella, Alice would 



219 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




have seen that. He — or she — had no intention of 
hurting Bella. Or Charlie, for that matter.” 

I cringed at my father’s name. 

“It’s going to be fine, Bella,” Esme murmured, 
smoothing my hair. 

“But what was the point then?” Carlisle mused. 
“Checking to see if I’m still human?” I guessed. 
“Possible,” Carlisle said. 

Rosalie breathed out a sigh, loud enough for me to 
hear. She’d unfrozen, and her face was turned 
expectantly toward the kitchen. Edward, on the other 
hand, looked discouraged. 

Emmett burst through the kitchen door, Jasper right 
behind him. 

“Long gone, hours ago,” Emmett announced, 
disappointed. “The trail went East, then South, and 
disappeared on a side road. Had a car waiting.” 

“That’s bad luck,” Edward muttered. “If he’d gone 
west ... well, it would be nice for those dogs to make 
themselves useful.” 

I winced, and Esme rubbed my shoulder. 

Jasper looked at Carlisle. “Neither of us recognized 
him. But here.” He held out something green and 
crumpled. Carlisle took it from him and held it to his 
face. I saw, as it exchanged hands, that it was a 
broken fern frond. “Maybe you know the scent.” 



220 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“No,” Carlisle said. “Not familiar. No one I’ve ever 
met.” 

“Perhaps we’re looking at this the wrong way. Maybe 
it’s a coincidence ... Esme began, but stopped when 
she saw everyone else’s incredulous expressions. “I 
don’t mean a coincidence that a stranger happened to 
pick Bella’s house to visit at random. I meant that 
maybe someone was just curious. Our scent is all 
around her. Was he wondering what draws us there?” 

“Why wouldn’t he just come here then? If he was 
curious?” Emmett demanded. 

“You would,” Esme said with a sudden, fond smile. 
“The rest of us aren’t always so direct. Our family is 
very large — he or she might be frightened. But 
Charlie wasn’t harmed. This doesn’t have to be an 
enemy.” 

Just curious. Like James and Victoria had been 
curious, in the beginning? The thought of Victoria 
made me tremble, though the one thing they seemed 
certain of was that it had not been her. Not this time. 
She would stick to her obsessed pattern. This was 
just someone else, a stranger. 

I was slowly realizing that vampires were much bigger 
participants in this world than I’d once thought. How 
many times did the average human cross paths with 
them, completely unaware? How many deaths, 
obliviously reported as crimes and accidents, were 
really due to their thirst? How crowded would this 
new world be when I finally joined it? 

The shrouded future sent a shiver down my spine. 



221 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The Cullens pondered Esme’s words with varying 
expressions. I could see that Edward did not accept 
her theory, and that Carlisle very much wanted to. 

Alice pursed her lips. “I don’t think so. The timing of 
it was too perfect... . This visitor was so careful to 
make no contact. Almost like he or she knew that I 
would see... .” 

“He could have other reasons for not making contact,” 
Esme reminded her. 

“Does it really matter who it was?” I asked. “Just the 
chance that someone was looking for me ... isn’t that 
reason enough? We shouldn’t wait for graduation.” 

“No, Bella,” Edward said quickly. “It’s not that bad. If 
you’re really in danger, we’ll know.” 

“Think of Charlie,” Carlisle reminded me. “Think of 
how it would hurt him if you disappeared.” 

“I am thinking of Charlie! He’s the one I’m worried 
about! What if my little guest had happened to be 
thirsty last night? As long as I’m around Charlie, he’s 
a target, too. If anything happened to him, it would be 
all my fault!” 

“Hardly, Bella,” Esme said, patting my hair again. 
“And nothing will happen to Charlie. We’re just going 
to have to be more careful.” 

“More careful?” I repeated in disbelief. 

“It’s all going to be fine, Bella,” Alice promised; 

Edward squeezed my hand. 



222 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




And I could see, looking at all of their beautiful faces 
one by one, that nothing I could say was going to 
change their minds. 

It was a quiet ride home. I was frustrated. Against my 
better judgment, I was still human. 

“You won’t be alone for a second,” Edward promised 
as he drove me to Charlie’s. “Someone will always be 
there. Emmett, Alice, Jasper ...” 

I sighed. “This is ridiculous. They’ll get so bored, 
they’ll have to kill me themselves, just for something 
to do.” 

Edward gave me a sour look. “Hilarious, Bella.” 

Charlie was in a good mood when we got back. He 
could see the tension between me and Edward, and 
he was misinterpreting it. He watched me throw 
together his dinner with a smug smile on his face. 
Edward had excused himself for a moment, to do 
some surveillance, I assumed, but Charlie waited till 
he was back to pass on my messages. 

“Jacob called again,” Charlie said as soon as Edward 
was in the room. I kept my face empty as I set the 
plate in front of him. 

“Is that a fact?” 

Charlie frowned. “Don’t be petty, Bella. He sounded 
really low.” 

“Is Jacob paying you for all the P.R., or are you a 
volunteer?” 

Charlie grumbled incoherently at me until the food 
cut off his garbled complaint. 

223 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Though he didn’t realize it, he’d found his mark. 

My life was feeling a lot like a game of dice right now 
— would the next roll come up snake eyes? What if 
something did happen to me? It seemed worse than 
petty to leave Jacob feeling guilty about what he’d 
said. 

But I didn’t want to talk to him with Charlie around, 
to have to watch my every word so I didn’t let the 
wrong thing slip. Thinking about this made me 
jealous of Jacob and Billy’s relationship. How easy it 
must be when you had no secrets from the person 
you lived with. 

So I would wait for the morning. I most likely wasn’t 
going to die tonight, after all, and it wouldn’t hurt him 
to feel guilty for twelve more hours. It might even be 
good for him. 

When Edward officially left for the evening, I 
wondered who was out in the downpour, keeping an 
eye on Charlie and me. I felt awful for Alice or 
whoever else it might be, but still comforted. I had to 
admit it was nice, knowing I wasn’t alone. And 
Edward was back in record time. 

He sang me to sleep again and — aware even in 
unconsciousness that he was there — I slept free of 
nightmares. 

In the morning, Charlie left to go fishing with Deputy 
Mark before I was up. I decided to use this lack of 
supervision to be divine. 

“I’m going to let Jacob off the hook,” I warned Edward 
after I’d eaten breakfast. 



224 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I knew you’d forgive him,” he said with an easy 
smile. “Holding grudges is not one of your many 
talents.” 

I rolled my eyes, but I was pleased. It seemed like 
Edward really was over the whole anti-werewolf thing. 

I didn’t look at the clock until after I’d dialed. It was a 
little early for calls, and I worried that I would wake 
Billy and Jake, but someone picked up before the 
second ring, so he couldn’t have been too far from the 
phone. 

“Hello?” a dull voice said. 

“Jacob?” 

“Bella!” he exclaimed. “Oh, Bella, I’m so sorry!” he 
tripped over the words as he hurried to get them out. 
“I swear I didn’t mean it. I was just being stupid. I 
was angry — but that’s no excuse. It was the 
stupidest thing I’ve ever said in my life and I’m sorry. 
Don’t be mad at me, please? Please. Lifetime of 
servitude up for grabs — all you have to do is forgive 
me.” 

“I’m not mad. You’re forgiven.” 

“Thank you,” he breathed fervently. “I can’t believe I 
was such a jerk.” 

“Don’t worry about that — I’m used to it.” 

He laughed, exuberant with relief. “Come down to see 
me,” he begged. “I want to make it up to you.” 

I frowned. “How?” 



225 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Anything you want. Cliff diving,” he suggested, 
laughing again. 

“Oh, there’s a brilliant idea.” 

“I’ll keep you safe,” he promised. “No matter what you 
want to do.” 

I glanced at Edward. His face was very calm, but I 
was sure this was not the time. 

“Not right now.” 

“He’s not thrilled with me, is he?” Jacob’s voice was 
ashamed, rather than bitter, for once. 

“That’s not the problem. There’s ... well, there’s this 
other problem that’s slightly more worrisome than a 
bratty teenage werewolf... .” I tried to keep my tone 
joking, but I didn’t fool him. 

“What’s wrong?” he demanded. 

“Um.” I wasn’t sure what I should tell him. 

Edward held his hand out for the phone. I looked at 
his face carefully. He seemed calm enough. 

“Bella?” Jacob asked. 

Edward sighed, holding his hand closer. 

“Do you mind speaking to Edward?” I asked 
apprehensively. “He wants to talk to you.” 

There was a long pause. 

“Okay,” Jacob finally agreed. “This should be 
interesting.” 

226 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I handed the phone to Edward; I hoped he could read 
the warning in my eyes. 

“Hello, Jacob,” Edward said, perfectly polite. 

There was a silence. I bit my lip, trying to guess how 
Jacob would answer. 

“Someone was here — not a scent I know,” Edward 
explained. “Has your pack come across anything 
new?” 

Another pause, while Edward nodded to himself, 
unsurprised. 

“Here’s the crux, Jacob. I won’t be letting Bella out of 
my sight till I get this taken care of. It’s nothing 
personal — ” 

Jacob interrupted him then, and I could hear the 
buzz of his voice from the receiver. Whatever he was 
saying, he was more intense than before. I tried 
unsuccessfully to make out the words. 

“You might be right — ,” Edward began, but Jacob 
was arguing again. Neither of them sounded angry, at 
least. 

“That’s an interesting suggestion. We’re quite willing 
to renegotiate. If Sam is amenable.” 

Jacob’s voice was quieter now. I started chewing on 
my thumbnail as I tried to read Edward’s expression. 

“Thank you,” Edward replied. 

Then Jacob said something that caused a surprised 
expression to flicker across Edward’s face. 



227 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’d planned to go alone, actually,” Edward said, 
answering the unexpected question. “And leave her 
with the others.” 

Jacob’s voice rose in pitch, and it sounded to me like 
he was trying to be persuasive. 

“I’ll try to consider it objectively,” Edward promised. 
“As objectively as I’m capable of.” 

The pause was shorter this time. 

“That’s not a half-bad idea. When? ... No, that’s fine. 
I’d like a chance to follow the trail personally, anyway. 
Ten minutes ... Certainly,” Edward said. He held the 
phone out to me. “Bella?” 

I took it slowly, feeling confused. 

“What was that all about?” I asked Jacob, my voice 
peeved. I knew it was juvenile, but I felt excluded. 

“A truce, I think. Hey, do me a favor,” Jacob 
suggested. “Try to convince your bloodsucker that the 
safest place for you to be — especially when he leaves 
— is on the reservation. We’re well able to handle 
anything.” 

“Is that what you were trying to sell him?” 

“Yes. It makes sense. Charlie’s probably better off 
here, too. As much as possible.” 

“Get Billy on it,” I agreed. I hated that I was putting 
Charlie within the range of the crosshairs that always 
seemed to be centered on me. “What else?” 

“Just rearranging some boundaries, so we can catch 
anyone who gets too near Forks. I’m not sure if Sam 

228 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




will go for it, but until he comes around, I’ll keep an 
eye on things.” 

“What do you mean by ‘keep an eye on things’?” 

“I mean that if you see a wolf running around your 
house, don’t shoot at it.” 

“Of course not. You really shouldn’t do anything ... 
risky, though.” 

He snorted. “Don’t be stupid. I can take care of 
myself.” 

I sighed. 

“I also tried to convince him to let you visit. He’s 
prejudiced, so don’t let him give you any crap about 
safety. He knows as well as I do that you’d be safe 
here.” 

“I’ll keep that in mind.” 

“See you in a few,” Jacob said. 

“You’re coming up?” 

“Yeah. I’m going to get the scent of your visitor so we 
can track him if he comes back.” 

“Jake, I really don’t like the idea of you tracking — ” 

“Oh please, Bella,” he interrupted. Jacob laughed, 
and then hung up. 



229 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




SCENT 



to 



It was all very childish. Why on Earth should Edward 
have to leave for Jacob to come over? Weren’t we past 
this kind of immaturity? 

“It’s not that I feel any personal antagonism toward 
him, Bella, it’s just easier for both of us,” Edward told 
me at the door. “I won’t be far away. You’ll be safe.” 

“I’m not worried about that.” 

He smiled, and then a sly look came into his eye. He 
pulled me close, burying his face in my hair. I could 
feel his cool breath saturate the strands as he 
exhaled; it raised goose bumps on my neck. 

“I’ll be right back,” he said, and then he laughed 
aloud as if I’d just told a good joke. 

“What’s so funny?” 

But Edward just grinned and loped off toward the 
trees without answering. 

Grumbling to myself, I went to clean up the kitchen. 
Before I even had the sink full of water, the doorbell 
rang. It was hard to get used to how much faster 
Jacob was without his car. How everyone seemed to 
be so much faster than me... . 

“Come in, Jake!” I shouted. 

I was concentrating on piling the dishes into the 
bubbly water, and I’d forgotten that Jacob moved like 



230 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



a ghost these days. So it made me jump when his 
voice was suddenly there behind me. 

“Should you really leave your door unlocked like that? 
Oh, sorry.” 

I’d slopped myself with the dishwater when he’d 
startled me. 

“I’m not worried about anyone who would be deterred 
by a locked door,” I said while I wiped the front of my 
shirt with a dishtowel. 

“Good point,” he agreed. 

I turned to look at him, eyeing him critically. “Is it 
really so impossible to wear clothes, Jacob?” I asked. 
Once again, Jacob was bare-chested, wearing nothing 
but a pair of old cut-off jeans. Secretly, I wondered if 
he was just so proud of his new muscles that he 
couldn’t stand to cover them up. I had to admit, they 
were impressive — but I’d never thought of him as 
vain. “I mean, I know you don’t get cold anymore, but 
still.” 

He ran a hand through his wet hair; it was falling in 
his eyes. 

“It’s just easier,” he explained. 

“What’s easier?” 

He smiled condescendingly. “It’s enough of a pain to 
carry the shorts around with me, let alone a complete 
outfit. What do I look like, a pack mule?” 

I frowned. “What are you talking about, Jacob?” 



231 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His expression was superior, like I was missing 
something obvious. “My clothes don’t just pop in and 
out of existence when I change — I have to carry them 
with me while I run. Pardon me for keeping my 
burden light.” 

I changed color. “I guess I didn’t think about that,” I 
muttered. 

He laughed and pointed to a black leather cord, thin 
as a strand of yarn, that was wound three times 
below his left calf like an anklet. I hadn’t noticed 
before that his feet were bare, too. “That’s more than 
just a fashion statement — it sucks to carry jeans in 
your mouth.” 

I didn’t know what to say to that. 

He grinned. “Does my being half-naked bother you?” 
“No.” 

Jacob laughed again, and I turned my back on him to 
focus on the dishes. I hoped he realized my blush was 
left over from embarrassment at my own stupidity, 
and had nothing to do with his question. 

“Well, I suppose I should get to work.” He sighed. “I 
wouldn’t want to give him an excuse to say I’m 
slacking on my side.” 

“Jacob, it’s not your job — ” 

He raised a hand to cut me off. “I’m working on a 
volunteer basis here. Now, where is the intruder’s 
scent the worst?” 

“My bedroom, I think.” 



232 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His eyes narrowed. He didn’t like that any more than 
Edward had. 

“I’ll just be a minute.” 

I methodically scrubbed the plate I was holding. The 
only sound was the brush’s plastic bristles scraping 
round and round on the ceramic. I listened for 
something from above, a creak of the floorboard, the 
click of a door. There was nothing. I realized I’d been 
cleaning the same plate far longer than necessary, 
and I tried to pay attention to what I was doing. 

“Whew!” Jacob said, inches behind me, scaring me 
again. 

“Yeesh, Jake, cut that out!” 

“Sorry. Here — ” Jacob took the towel and mopped up 
my new spill. “I’ll make it up to you. You wash, I’ll 
rinse and dry.” 

“Fine.” I gave him the plate. 

“Well, the scent was easy enough to catch. By the 
way, your room reeks.” 

“I’ll buy some air freshener.” 

He laughed. 

I washed and he dried in companionable silence for a 
few minutes. 

“Can I ask you something?” 

I handed him another plate. “That depends on what 
you want to know.” 



233 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm not trying to be a jerk or anything — I’m honestly 
curious,” Jacob assured me. 

“Fine. Go ahead.” 

He paused for half a second. “What’s it like — having 
a vampire for a boyfriend?” 

I rolled my eyes. “It’s the best.” 

“I’m serious. The idea doesn’t bother you — it never 
creeps you out?” 

“Never.” 

He was silent as he reached for the bowl in my hands. 
I peeked up at his face — he was frowning, his lower 
lip jutting out. 

“Anything else?” I asked. 

He wrinkled his nose again. “Well ... I was wondering 
... do you . . . y ’know, kiss him?” 

I laughed. “Yes.” 

He shuddered. “Ugh.” 

“To each her own,” I murmured. 

“You don’t worry about the fangs?” 

I smacked his arm, splashing him with dishwater. 
“Shut up, Jacob! You know he doesn’t have fangs!” 

“Close enough,” he muttered. 

I gritted my teeth and scrubbed a boning knife with 
more force than necessary. 

234 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Can I ask another one?” he asked softly when I 
passed the knife to him. “Just curious, again.” 



“Fine,” I snapped. 

He turned the knife over and over in his hands under 
the stream of water. When he spoke, it was only a 
whisper. “You said a few weeks... . When, exactly ... ?” 
He couldn’t finish. 

“Graduation,” I whispered back, watching his face 
warily. Would this set him off again? 

“So soon,” he breathed, his eyes closing. It didn’t 
sound like a question. It sounded like a lament. The 
muscles in his arms tightened and his shoulders were 
stiff. 

“OW!” he shouted; it had gotten so still in the room 
that I jumped a foot in the air at his outburst. 

His right hand had curled into a tense fist around the 
blade of the knife — he unclenched his hand and the 
knife clattered onto the counter. Across his palm was 
a long, deep gash. The blood streamed down his 
fingers and dripped on the floor. 

“Damn it! Ouch!” he complained. 

My head spun and my stomach rolled. I clung to the 
countertop with one hand, took a deep breath 
through my mouth, and forced myself to get a grip so 
that I could take care of him. 

“Oh, no, Jacob! Oh, crap! Here, wrap this around it!” I 
shoved the dish towel at him, reaching for his hand. 
He shrugged away from me. 

“It’s nothing, Bella, don’t worry about it.” 

235 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The room started to shimmer a little around the 
edges. 

I took another deep breath. “Don’t worry?! You sliced 
your hand open!” 

He ignored the dish towel I pushed at him. He put his 
hand under the faucet and let the water wash over 
the wound. The water ran red. My head whirled. 

“Bella,” he said. 

I looked away from the wound, up to his face. He was 
frowning, but his expression was calm. 

“What?” 

“You look like you’re going to pass out, and you’re 
biting your lip off. Stop it. Relax. Breathe. I’m fine.” 

I inhaled through my mouth and removed my teeth 
from my lower lip. “Don’t be brave.” 

He rolled his eyes. 

“Let’s go. I’ll drive you to the ER.” I was pretty sure I 
would be okay to drive. The walls were holding steady 
now, at least. 

“Not necessary.” Jake turned off the water and took 
the towel from my hand. He twisted it loosely around 
his palm. 

“Wait,” I protested. “Let me look at it.” I clutched the 
counter more firmly, to hold myself upright if the 
wound made me woozy again. 

“Do you have a medical degree that you never told me 
about?” 

236 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Just give me the chance to decide whether or not I’m 
going to throw a fit over taking you to the hospital.” 

He made a face of mock horror. “Please, not a fit!” 

“If you don’t let me see your hand, a fit is 
guaranteed.” 

He inhaled deeply, and then let out a gusty sigh. 
“Fine.” 

He unwound the towel and, when I reached out to 
take the cloth, he laid his hand in mine. 

It took me a few seconds. I even flipped his hand over, 
though I was sure he’d cut his palm. I turned his 
hand back up, finally realizing that the angry pink, 
puckered line was all that was left of his wound. 

“But ... you were bleeding ... so much.” 

He pulled his hand back, his eyes steady and somber 
on mine. 

“I heal fast.” 

“I’ll say,” I mouthed. 

I’d seen the long gash clearly, seen the blood that 
flowed into the sink. The rust-and-salt smell of it had 
almost pulled me under. It should have needed 
stitches. It should have taken days to scab over and 
then weeks to fade into the shiny pink scar that 
marked his skin now. 

He screwed his mouth up into half a smile and 
thumped his fist once against his chest. “Werewolf, 
remember?” 



237 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His eyes held mine for an immeasurable moment. 
“Right,” I finally said. 

He laughed at my expression. “I told you this. You 
saw Paul’s scar.” 

I shook my head to clear it. “It’s a little different, 
seeing the action sequence firsthand.” 

I kneeled down and dug the bleach out of the cabinet 
under the sink. Then I poured some on a dusting rag 
and started scrubbing the floor. The burning scent of 
the bleach cleared the last of the dizziness from my 
head. 

“Let me clean up,” Jacob said. 

“I got this. Throw that towel in the wash, will you?” 

When I was sure the floor smelled of nothing but 
bleach, I got up and rinsed the right side of the sink 
with bleach, too. Then I went to the laundry closet 
beside the pantry, and poured a cupful into the 
washing machine before starting it. Jacob watched 
me with a disapproving look on his face. 

“Do you have obsessive-compulsive disorder?” he 
asked when I was done. 

Huh. Maybe. But at least I had a good excuse this 
time. “We’re a bit sensitive to blood around here. I’m 
sure you can understand that.” 

“Oh.” He wrinkled his nose again. 

“Why not make it as easy as possible for him? What 
he’s doing is hard enough.” 



238 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sure, sure. Why not?” 



I pulled the plug, and let the dirty water drain from 
the sink. 

“Can I ask you something, Bella?” 

I sighed. 

“What’s it like — having a werewolf for a best friend?” 

The question caught me off guard. I laughed out loud. 

“Does it creep you out?” he pressed before I could 
answer. 

“No. When the werewolf is being nice,” I qualified, “it’s 
the best.” 

He grinned widely, his teeth bright against his russet 
skin. “Thanks, Bella,” he said, and then he grabbed 
my hand and wrenched me into one of his bone- 
crushing hugs. 

Before I had time to react, he dropped his arms and 
stepped away. 

“Ugh,” he said, his nose wrinkling. “Your hair stinks 
worse than your room.” 

“Sorry,” I muttered. I suddenly understood what 
Edward had been laughing about earlier, after 
breathing on me. 

“One of the many hazards of socializing with 
vampires,” Jacob said, shrugging. “It makes you smell 
bad. A minor hazard, comparatively.” 

I glared at him. “I only smell bad to you, Jake.” 

239 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He grinned. “See you around, Bells.” 

“Are you leaving?” 

“He’s waiting for me to go. I can hear him outside.” 
“Oh.” 

“I’ll go out the back,” he said, and then he paused. 
“Hold up a sec — hey, do you think you can come to 
La Push tonight? We’re having a bonfire party. Emily 
will be there, and you could meet Kim ... And I know 
Quil wants to see you, too. He’s pretty peeved that 
you found out before he did.” 

I grinned at that. I could just imagine how that would 
have irked Quil — Jacob’s little human gal pal down 
with the werewolves while he was still clueless. And 
then I sighed. “Yeah, Jake, I don’t know about that. 
See, it’s a little tense right now... .” 

“C’mon, you think somebody’s going to get past all — 
all six of us?” 

There was a strange pause as he stuttered over the 
end of his question. I wondered if he had trouble 
saying the word werewolf aloud, the way I often had 
difficulty with vampire. 

His big dark eyes were full of unashamed pleading. 
“I’ll ask,” I said doubtfully. 

He made a noise in the back of his throat. “Is he your 
warden, now, too? You know, I saw this story on the 
news last week about controlling, abusive teenage 
relationships and — ” 



240 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay!” I cut him off, and then shoved his arm. “Time 
for the werewolf to get out!” 

He grinned. “Bye, Bells. Be sure you ask permission.” 

He ducked out the back door before I could find 
something to throw at him. I growled incoherently at 
the empty room. 

Seconds after he was gone, Edward walked slowly 
into the kitchen, raindrops glistening like diamonds 
set into the bronze of his hair. His eyes were wary. 

“Did you two get into a fight?” he asked. 

“Edward!” I sang, throwing myself at him. 

“Hi, there.” He laughed and wrapped his arms around 
me. “Are you trying to distract me? It’s working.” 

“No, I didn’t fight with Jacob. Much. Why?” 

“I was just wondering why you stabbed him. Not that 
I object.” With his chin, he gestured to the knife on 
the counter. 

“Dang! I thought I got everything.” 

I pulled away from him and ran to put the knife in the 
sink before I doused it with bleach. 

“I didn’t stab him,” I explained as I worked. “He forgot 
he had a knife in his hand.” 

Edward chuckled. “That’s not nearly as fun as the 
way I imagined it.” 

“Be nice.” 



241 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He took a big envelope from his jacket pocket and 
tossed it on the counter. “I got your mail.” 



“Anything good?” 

“I think so.” 

My eyes narrowed suspiciously at his tone. I went to 
investigate. 

He’d folded the legal-sized envelope in half. I 
smoothed it open, surprised at the weight of the 
expensive paper, and read the return address. 

“Dartmouth? Is this a joke?” 

“I’m sure it’s an acceptance. It looks exactly like 
mine.” 

“Good grief, Edward — what did you do?” 

“I sent in your application, that’s all.” 

“I may not be Dartmouth material, but I’m not stupid 
enough to believe that.” 

“Dartmouth seems to think that you’re Dartmouth 
material.” 

I took a deep breath and counted slowly to ten. 

“That’s very generous of them,” I finally said. 

“However, accepted or not, there is still the minor 
matter of tuition. I can’t afford it, and I’m not letting 
you throw away enough money to buy yourself 
another sports car just so that I can pretend to go to 
Dartmouth next year.” 

“I don’t need another sports car. And you don’t have 
to pretend anything,” he murmured. “One year of 

242 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




college wouldn’t kill you. Maybe you’d even like it. 

Just think about it, Bella. Imagine how excited 
Charlie and Renee would be... .” 

His velvet voice painted the picture in my head before 
I could block it. Of course Charlie would explode with 
pride — no one in the town of Forks would be able to 
escape the fallout from his excitement. And Renee 
would be hysterical with joy at my triumph — though 
she’d swear she wasn’t at all surprised... . 

I tried to shake the image out of my head. “Edward. 
I’m worried about living through graduation, let alone 
this summer or next fall.” 

His arms wrapped around me again. “No one is going 
to hurt you. You have all the time in the world.” 

I sighed. “I’m mailing the contents of my bank 
account to Alaska tomorrow. It’s all the alibi I need. 
It’s far enough away that Charlie won’t expect a visit 
until Christmas at the earliest. And I’m sure I’ll think 
of some excuse by then. You know,” I teased 
halfheartedly, “this whole secrecy and deception thing 
is kind of a pain.” 

Edward’s expression hardened. “It gets easier. After a 
few decades, everyone you know is dead. Problem 
solved.” 

I flinched. 

“Sorry, that was harsh.” 

I stared down at the big white envelope, not seeing it. 
“But still true.” 

“If I get this resolved, whatever it is we’re dealing with, 
will you please consider waiting?” 

243 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nope.” 



“Always so stubborn.” 

“Yep.” 

The washing machine thumped and stuttered to a 
halt. 

“Stupid piece of junk,” I muttered as I pulled away 
from him. I moved the one small towel that had 
unbalanced the otherwise empty machine, and 
started it again. 

“This reminds me,” I said. “Could you ask Alice what 
she did with my stuff when she cleaned my room? I 
can’t find it anywhere.” 

He looked at me with confused eyes. “Alice cleaned 
your room?” 

“Yeah, I guess that’s what she was doing. When she 
came to get my pajamas and pillow and stuff to hold 
me hostage.” I glowered at him briefly. “She picked up 
everything that was lying around, my shirts, my 
socks, and I don’t know where she put them.” 

Edward continued to look confused for one short 
moment, and then, abruptly, he was rigid. 

“When did you notice your things were missing?” 

“When I got back from the fake slumber party. Why?” 

“I don’t think Alice took anything. Not your clothes, or 
your pillow. The things that were taken, these were 
things you’d worn ... and touched ... and slept on?” 

“Yes. What is it, Edward?” 

244 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His expression was strained. “Things with your 
scent.” 

“Oh!” 

We stared into each others eyes for a long moment. 
“My visitor,” I muttered. 

“He was gathering traces ... evidence. To prove that 
he’d found you?” 

“Why?” I whispered. 

“I don’t know. But, Bella, I swear I will find out. I 
will.” 

“I know you will,” I said, laying my head against his 
chest. Leaning there, I felt his phone vibrate in his 
pocket. 

He pulled out his phone and glanced at the number. 
“Just the person I need to talk to,” he murmured, and 
then he flipped it open. “Carlisle, I — ” He broke off 
and listened, his face taut with concentration for a 
few minutes. “I’ll check it out. Listen ...” 

He explained about my missing things, but from the 
side I was hearing, it sounded like Carlisle had no 
insights for us. 

“Maybe I’ll go ... ,” Edward said, trailing off as his eyes 
drifted toward me. “Maybe not. Don’t let Emmett go 
alone, you know how he gets. At least ask Alice keep 
an eye on things. We’ll figure this out later.” 

He snapped the phone shut. “Where’s the paper?” he 
asked me. 



245 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Um, I’m not sure. Why?” 



“I need to see something. Did Charlie already throw it 
out?” 

“Maybe... .” 

Edward disappeared. 

He was back in half a second, new diamonds in his 
hair, a wet newspaper in his hands. He spread it out 
on the table, his eyes scanning quickly across the 
headlines. He leaned in, intent on something he was 
reading, one finger tracing passages that interested 
him most. 

“Carlisle’s right ... yes ... very sloppy. Young and 
crazed? Or a death wish?” he muttered to himself. 

I went to peek over his shoulder. 

The headline of the Seattle Times read: “Murder 
Epidemic Continues — Police Have No New Leads.” 

It was almost the same story Charlie had been 
complaining about a few weeks ago — the big-city 
violence that was pushing Seattle up the national 
murder hot-spot list. It wasn’t exactly the same story, 
though. The numbers were a lot higher. 

“It’s getting worse,” I murmured. 

He frowned. “Altogether out of control. This can’t be 
the work of just one newborn vampire. What’s going 
on? It’s as if they’ve never heard of the Volturi. Which 
is possible, I guess. No one has explained the rules to 
them ... so who is creating them, then?” 

“The Volturi?” I repeated, shuddering. 

246 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“This is exactly the kind of thing they routinely wipe 
out — immortals who threaten to expose us. They 
just cleaned up a mess like this a few years ago in 
Atlanta, and it hadn’t gotten nearly this bad. They will 
intervene soon, very soon, unless we can find some 
way to calm the situation. I’d really rather they didn’t 
come to Seattle just now. As long as they’re this close 
... they might decide to check on you.” 

I shuddered again. “What can we do?” 

“We need to know more before we can decide that. 
Perhaps if we can talk to these young ones, explain 
the rules, it can be resolved peacefully.” He frowned, 
like he didn’t think the chances of that were good. 
“Well wait until Alice has an idea of what’s going on... 

. We don’t want to step in until it’s absolutely 
necessary. After all, it’s not our responsibility. But it’s 
good we have Jasper,” he added, almost to himself. “If 
we are dealing with newborns, he’ll be helpful.” 

“Jasper? Why?” 

Edward smiled darkly. “Jasper is sort of an expert on 
young vampires.” 

“What do you mean, an expert?” 

“You’ll have to ask him — the story is involved.” 

“What a mess,” I mumbled. 

“It does feel that way, doesn’t it? Like it’s coming at 
us from all sides these days.” He sighed. “Do you ever 
think that your life might be easier if you weren’t in 
love with me?” 

“Maybe. It wouldn’t be much of a life, though.” 



247 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“For me,” he amended quietly. “And now, I suppose,” 
he continued with a wry smile, “you have something 
you want to ask me?” 

I stared at him blankly. “I do?” 

“Or maybe not.” He grinned. “I was rather under the 
impression that you’d promised to ask my permission 
to go to some kind of werewolf soiree tonight.” 

“Eavesdropping again?” 

He grinned. “Just a bit, at the very end.” 

“Well, I wasn’t going to ask you anyway. I figured you 
had enough to stress about.” 

He put his hand under my chin, and held my face so 
that he could read my eyes. “Would you like to go?” 

“It’s no big thing. Don’t worry about it.” 

“You don’t have to ask my permission, Bella. I’m not 
your father — thank heaven for that. Perhaps you 
should ask Charlie, though.” 

“But you know Charlie will say yes.” 

“I do have a bit more insight into his probable answer 
than most people would, it’s true.” 

I just stared at him, trying to understand what he 
wanted, and trying to put out of my mind the 
yearning I felt to go to La Push so that I wouldn’t be 
swayed by my own wishes. It was stupid to want to go 
hang out with a bunch of big idiot wolf-boys right now 
when there was so much that was frightening and 
unexplained going on. Of course, that was exactly 
why I wanted to go. I wanted to escape the death 
248 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




threats, for just a few hours ... to be the less-mature, 
more-reckless Bella who could laugh it off with Jacob, 
if only briefly. But that didn’t matter. 

“Bella,” Edward said. “I told you that I was going to be 
reasonable and trust your judgment. I meant that. If 
you trust the werewolves, then I’m not going to worry 
about them.” 

“Wow,” I said, as I had last night. 

“And Jacob’s right — about one thing, anyway — a 
pack of werewolves ought to be enough to protect 
even you for one evening.” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Of course. Only ...” 

I braced myself. 

“I hope you won’t mind taking a few precautions? 
Allowing me to drive you to the boundary line, for 
one. And then taking a cell phone, so that I’ll know 
when to pick you up?” 

“That sounds ... very reasonable.” 

“Excellent.” 

He smiled at me, and I could see no trace of 
apprehension in his jewel-like eyes. 

To no one’s surprise, Charlie had no problem at all 
with me going to La Push for a bonfire. Jacob crowed 
with undisguised exultation when I called to give him 
the news, and he seemed eager enough to embrace 
Edward’s safety measures. He promised to meet us at 
the line between territories at six. 

249 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I had decided, after a short internal debate, that I 
would not sell my motorcycle. I would take it back to 
La Push where it belonged and, when I no longer 
needed it anymore ... well, then, I would insist that 
Jacob profit from his work somehow. He could sell it 
or give it to a friend. It didn’t matter to me. 

Tonight seemed like a good opportunity to return the 
bike to Jacob’s garage. As gloomy as I was feeling 
about things lately, every day seemed like a possible 
last chance. I didn’t have time to procrastinate any 
task, no matter how minor. 

Edward only nodded when I explained what I wanted, 
but I thought I saw a flicker of consternation in his 
eyes, and I knew he was no happier about the idea of 
me on a motorcycle than Charlie was. 

I followed him back to his house, to the garage where 
I’d left the bike. It wasn’t until I pulled the truck in 
and got out that I realized the consternation might 
not be entirely about my safety this time. 

Next to my little antique motorcycle, overshadowing 
it, was another vehicle. To call this other vehicle a 
motorcycle hardly seemed fair, since it didn’t seem to 
belong to the same family as my suddenly shabby- 
looking bike. 

It was big and sleek and silver and — even totally 
motionless — it looked fast. 

“What is that?” 

“Nothing,” Edward murmured. 

“It doesn’t look like nothing.” 



250 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward’s expression was casual; he seemed 
determined to blow it off. “Well, I didn’t know if you 
were going to forgive your friend, or he you, and I 
wondered if you would still want to ride your bike 
anyway. It sounded like it was something that you 
enjoyed. I thought I could go with you, if you wished.” 
He shrugged. 

I stared at the beautiful machine. Beside it, my bike 
looked like a broken tricycle. I felt a sudden wave of 
sadness when I realized that this was not a bad 
analogy for the way I probably looked next to Edward. 

“I wouldn’t be able to keep up with you,” I whispered. 

Edward put his hand under my chin and pulled my 
face around so that he could see it straight on. With 
one finger, he tried to push the corner of my mouth 
up. 

“I’d keep pace with you, Bella.” 

“That wouldn’t be much fun for you.” 

“Of course it would, if we were together.” 

I bit my lip and imagined it for a moment. “Edward, if 
you thought I was going too fast or losing control of 
the bike or something, what would you do?” 

He hesitated, obviously trying to find the right 
answer. I knew the truth: he’d find some way to save 
me before I crashed. 

Then he smiled. It looked effortless, except for the tiny 
defensive tightening of his eyes. 

“This is something you do with Jacob. I see that now.” 



251 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s just that, well, I don’t slow him down so much, 
you know. I could try, I guess... .” 

I eyed the silver motorcycle doubtfully. 

“Don’t worry about it,” Edward said, and then he 
laughed lightly. “I saw Jasper admiring it. Perhaps it’s 
time he discovered a new way to travel. After all, Alice 
has her Porsche now.” 

“Edward, I — ” 

He interrupted me with a quick kiss. “I said not to 
worry. But would you do something for me?” 

“Whatever you need,” I promised quickly. 

He dropped my face and leaned over the far side of 
the big motorcycle, retrieving something he had 
stashed there. 

He came back with one object that was black and 
shapeless, and another that was red and easily 
identifiable. 

“Please?” he asked, flashing the crooked smile that 
always destroyed my resistance. 

I took the red helmet, weighing it in my hands. “I’ll 
look stupid.” 

“No, you’ll look smart. Smart enough not to get 
yourself hurt.” He threw the black thing, whatever it 
was, over his arm and then took my face in his 
hands. “There are things between my hands right now 
that I can’t live without. You could take care of them.” 

“Okay, fine. What’s that other thing?” I asked 
suspiciously. 

252 I P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed and shook out some kind of padded 
jacket. “It’s a riding jacket. I hear road rash is quite 
uncomfortable, not that I would know myself.” 

He held it out for me. With a deep sigh, I flipped my 
hair back and stuffed the helmet on my head. Then I 
shoved my arms through the sleeves of the jacket. He 
zipped me in, a smile playing around the corners of 
his lips, and took a step back. 

I felt bulky. 

“Be honest, how hideous do I look?” 

He took another step back and pursed his lips. 

“That bad, huh?” I muttered. 

“No, no, Bella. Actually ...” he seemed to be struggling 
for the right word. “You look ... sexy.” 

I laughed out loud. “Right.” 

“Very sexy, really.” 

“You are just saying that so that I’ll wear it,” I said. 
“But that’s okay. You’re right, it’s smarter.” 

He wrapped his arms around me and pulled me 
against his chest. “You’re silly. I suppose that’s part 
of your charm. Though, I’ll admit it, this helmet does 
have its drawbacks.” 

And then he pulled the helmet off so that he could 
kiss me. 

As Edward drove me toward La Push a little while 
later, I realized that this unprecedented situation felt 



253 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




oddly familiar. It took me a moment of thought to 
pinpoint the source of the deja vu. 

“You know what this reminds me of?” I asked. “It’s 
just like when I was a kid and Renee would pass me 
off to Charlie for the summer. I feel like a seven-year- 
old.” 

Edward laughed. 

I didn’t mention it out loud, but the biggest difference 
between the two circumstances was that Renee and 
Charlie had been on better terms. 

About halfway to La Push, we rounded the corner and 
found Jacob leaning against the side of the red 
Volkswagen he’d built for himself out of scraps. 
Jacob’s carefully neutral expression dissolved into a 
smile when I waved from the front seat. 

Edward parked the Volvo thirty yards away. 

“Call me whenever you’re ready to come home,” he 
said. “And I’ll be here.” 

“I won’t be out late,” I promised. 

Edward pulled the bike and my new gear out of the 
trunk of his car — I’d been quite impressed that it 
had all fit. But it wasn’t so hard to manage when you 
were strong enough to juggle full-sized vans, let alone 
small motorcycles. 

Jacob watched, making no move to approach, his 
smile gone and his dark eyes indecipherable. 

I tucked the helmet under my arm and threw the 
jacket across the seat. 



254 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you have it all?” Edward asked. 

“No problem,” I assured him. 

He sighed and leaned toward me. I turned my face up 
for a goodbye peck, but Edward took me by surprise, 
fastening his arms tightly around me and kissing me 
with as much enthusiasm as he had in the garage — 
before long, I was gasping for air. 

Edward laughed quietly at something, and then let 
me go. 

“Goodbye,” he said. “I really do like the jacket.” 

As I turned away from him, I thought I saw a flash of 
something in his eyes that I wasn’t supposed to see. I 
couldn’t tell for sure what it was exactly. Worry, 
maybe. For a second I thought it was panic. But I was 
probably just making something out of nothing, as 
usual. 

I could feel his eyes on my back as I pushed my bike 
toward the invisible vampire-werewolf treaty line to 
meet Jacob. 

“What’s all that?” Jacob called to me, his voice wary, 
scrutinizing the motorcycle with an enigmatic 
expression. 

“I thought I should put this back where it belongs,” I 
told him. 

He pondered that for one short second, and then his 
wide smile stretched across his face. 

I knew the exact point that I was in werewolf territory 
because Jacob shoved away from his car and loped 
quickly over to me, closing the distance in three long 

255 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




strides. He took the bike from me, balanced it on the 
kickstand, and grabbed me up in another vice-tight 
hug. 

I heard the Volvo’s engine growl, and I struggled to get 
free. 

“Cut it out, Jake!” I gasped breathlessly. 

He laughed and set me down. I turned to wave 
goodbye, but the silver car was already disappearing 
around the curve in the road. 

“Nice,” I commented, allowing some acid to leak into 
my voice. 

His eyes widened in false innocence. “What?” 

“He’s being pretty dang pleasant about this; you don’t 
need to push your luck.” 

He laughed again, louder than before — he found 
what I’d said very funny indeed. I tried to see the joke 
as he walked around the Rabbit to hold my door open 
for me. 

“Bella,” he finally said — still chuckling — as he shut 
the door behind me, “you can’t push what you don’t 
have.” 



256 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





“Are you gonna eat that Hot Dog?” Paul asked Jacob, 
his eyes locked on the last remnant of the huge meal 
the werewolves had consumed. 

Jacob leaned back against my knees and toyed with 
the hot dog he had spitted on a straightened wire 
hanger; the flames at the edge of the bonfire licked 
along its blistered skin. He heaved a sigh and patted 
his stomach. It was somehow still flat, though I’d lost 
count of how many hot dogs he’d eaten after his 
tenth. Not to mention the super-sized bag of chips or 
the two-liter bottle of root beer. 

“I guess,” Jake said slowly. “I’m so full I’m about to 
puke, but I think I can force it down. I won’t enjoy it 
at all, though.” He sighed again sadly. 

Despite the fact that Paul had eaten at least as much 
as Jacob, he glowered and his hands balled up into 
fists. 

“Sheesh.” Jacob laughed. “Kidding, Paul. Here.” 

He flipped the homemade skewer across the circle. I 
expected it to land hot-dog-first in the sand, but Paul 
caught it neatly on the right end without difficulty. 

Hanging out with no one but extremely dexterous 
people all the time was going to give me a complex. 

“Thanks, man,” Paul said, already over his brief fit of 
temper. 



257 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



The fire crackled, settling lower toward the sand. 
Sparks blew up in a sudden puff of brilliant orange 
against the black sky. Funny, I hadn’t noticed that 
the sun had set. For the first time, I wondered how 
late it had gotten. I’d lost track of time completely. 

It was easier being with my Quileute friends than I’d 
expected. 

While Jacob and I had dropped off my bike at the 
garage — and he had admitted ruefully that the 
helmet was a good idea that he should have thought 
of himself — I’d started to worry about showing up 
with him at the bonfire, wondering if the werewolves 
would consider me a traitor now. Would they be angry 
with Jacob for inviting me? Would I ruin the party? 

But when Jacob had towed me out of the forest to the 
clifftop meeting place — where the fire already roared 
brighter than the cloud-obscured sun — it had all 
been very casual and light. 

“Hey, vampire girl!” Embry had greeted me loudly. 

Quil had jumped up to give me a high five and kiss 
me on the cheek. Emily had squeezed my hand when 
we’d sat on the cool stone ground beside her and 
Sam. 

Other than a few teasing complaints — mostly by 
Paul — about keeping the bloodsucker stench 
downwind, I was treated like someone who belonged. 

It wasn’t just kids in attendance, either. Billy was 
here, his wheelchair stationed at what seemed the 
natural head of the circle. Beside him on a folding 
lawn chair, looking quite brittle, was Quil’s ancient, 
white-haired grandfather, Old Quil. Sue Clearwater, 
widow of Charlie’s friend Harry, had a chair on his 
other side; her two children, Leah and Seth, were also 
258 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




there, sitting on the ground like the rest of us. This 
surprised me, but all three were clearly in on the 
secret now. From the way Billy and Old Quil spoke to 
Sue, it sounded to me like she’d taken Harry’s place 
on the council. Did that make her children automatic 
members of La Push’s most secret society? 

I wondered how horrible it was for Leah to sit across 
the circle from Sam and Emily. Her lovely face 
betrayed no emotion, but she never looked away from 
the flames. Looking at the perfection of Leah’s 
features, I couldn’t help but compare them to Emily’s 
ruined face. What did Leah think of Emily’s scars, 
now that she knew the truth behind them? Did it 
seem like justice in her eyes? 

Little Seth Clearwater wasn’t so little anymore. With 
his huge, happy grin and his long, gangly build, he 
reminded me very much of a younger Jacob. The 
resemblance made me smile, and then sigh. Was Seth 
doomed to have his life change as drastically as the 
rest of these boys? Was that future why he and his 
family were allowed to be here? 

The whole pack was there: Sam with his Emily, Paul, 
Embry, Quil, and Jared with Kim, the girl he’d 
imprinted upon. 

My first impression of Kim was that she was a nice 
girl, a little shy, and a little plain. She had a wide 
face, mostly cheekbones, with eyes too small to 
balance them out. Her nose and mouth were both too 
broad for traditional beauty. Her flat black hair was 
thin and wispy in the wind that never seemed to let 
up atop the cliff. 

That was my first impression. But after a few hours of 
watching Jared watch Kim, I could no longer find 
anything plain about the girl. 

259 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The way he stared at her! It was like a blind man 
seeing the sun for the first time. Like a collector 
finding an undiscovered Da Vinci, like a mother 
looking into the face of her newborn child. 

His wondering eyes made me see new things about 
her — how her skin looked like russet-colored silk in 
the firelight, how the shape of her lips was a perfect 
double curve, how white her teeth were against them, 
how long her eyelashes were, brushing her cheek 
when she looked down. 

Kim’s skin sometimes darkened when she met Jared’s 
awed gaze, and her eyes would drop as if in 
embarrassment, but she had a hard time keeping her 
eyes away from his for any length of time. 

Watching them, I felt like I better understood what 
Jacob had told me about imprinting before — it’s 
hard to resist that level of commitment and adoration. 

Kim was nodding off now against Jared’s chest, his 
arms around her. I imagined she would be very warm 
there. 

“It’s getting late,” I murmured to Jacob. 

“Don’t start that yet,” Jacob whispered back — 
though certainly half the group here had hearing 
sensitive enough to hear us anyway. “The best part is 
coming.” 

“What’s the best part? You swallowing an entire cow 
whole?” 

Jacob chuckled his low, throaty laugh. “No. That’s the 
finale. We didn’t meet just to eat through a week’s 
worth of food. This is technically a council meeting. 

It’s Quil’s first time, and he hasn’t heard the stories 

260 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




yet. Well, he’s heard them, but this will be the first 
time he knows they’re true. That tends to make a guy 
pay closer attention. Kim and Seth and Leah are all 
first-timers, too.” 

“Stories?” 

Jacob scooted back beside me, where I rested against 
a low ridge of rock. He put his arm over my shoulder 
and spoke even lower into my ear. 

“The histories we always thought were legends,” he 
said. “The stories of how we came to be. The first is 
the story of the spirit warriors.” 

It was almost as if Jacob’s soft whisper was the 
introduction. The atmosphere changed abruptly 
around the low-burning fire. Paul and Embry sat up 
straighter. Jared nudged Kim and then pulled her 
gently upright. 

Emily produced a spiral-bound notebook and a pen, 
looking exactly like a student set for an important 
lecture. Sam twisted just slightly beside her — so that 
he was facing the same direction as Old Quil, who 
was on his other side — and suddenly I realized that 
the elders of the council here were not three, but four 
in number. 

Leah Clearwater, her face still a beautiful and 
emotionless mask, closed her eyes — not like she was 
tired, but as if to help her concentration. Her brother 
leaned in toward the elders eagerly. 

The fire crackled, sending another explosion of sparks 
glittering up against the night. 

Billy cleared his throat, and, with no more 
introduction than his son’s whisper, began telling the 

261 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




story in his rich, deep voice. The words poured out 
with precision, as if he knew them by heart, but also 
with feeling and a subtle rhythm. Like poetry 
performed by its author. 

“The Quileutes have been a small people from the 
beginning,” Billy said. “And we are a small people 
still, but we have never disappeared. This is because 
there has always been magic in our blood. It wasn’t 
always the magic of shape-shifting — that came later. 
First, we were spirit warriors.” 

Never before had I recognized the ring of majesty that 
was in Billy Black’s voice, though I realized now that 
this authority had always been there. 

Emily’s pen sprinted across the sheets of paper as she 
tried to keep up with him. 

“In the beginning, the tribe settled in this harbor and 
became skilled ship builders and fishermen. But the 
tribe was small, and the harbor was rich in fish. 

There were others who coveted our land, and we were 
too small to hold it. A larger tribe moved against us, 
and we took to our ships to escape them. 

“Kaheleha was not the first spirit warrior, but we do 
not remember the stories that came before his. We do 
not remember who was the first to discover this 
power, or how it had been used before this crisis. 
Kaheleha was the first great Spirit Chief in our 
history. In this emergency, Kaheleha used the magic 
to defend our land. 

“He and all his warriors left the ship — not their 
bodies, but their spirits. Their women watched over 
the bodies and the waves, and the men took their 
spirits back to our harbor. 



262 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“They could not physically touch the enemy tribe, but 
they had other ways. The stories tell us that they 
could blow fierce winds into their enemy’s camps; 
they could make a great screaming in the wind that 
terrified their foes. The stories also tell us that the 
animals could see the spirit warriors and understand 
them; the animals would do their bidding. 

“Kaheleha took his spirit army and wreaked havoc on 
the intruders. This invading tribe had packs of big, 
thick-furred dogs that they used to pull their sleds in 
the frozen north. The spirit warriors turned the dogs 
against their masters and then brought a mighty 
infestation of bats up from the cliff caverns. They 
used the screaming wind to aid the dogs in confusing 
the men. The dogs and bats won. The survivors 
scattered, calling our harbor a cursed place. The dogs 
ran wild when the spirit warriors released them. The 
Quileutes returned to their bodies and their wives, 
victorious. 

“The other nearby tribes, the Hohs and the Makahs, 
made treaties with the Quileutes. They wanted 
nothing to do with our magic. We lived in peace with 
them. When an enemy came against us, the spirit 
warriors would drive them off. 

“Generations passed. Then came the last great Spirit 
Chief, Taha Aki. He was known for his wisdom, and 
for being a man of peace. The people lived well and 
content in his care. 

“But there was one man, Utlapa, who was not 
content.” 

A low hiss ran around the fire. I was too slow to see 
where it came from. Billy ignored it and went on with 
the legend. 



263 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Utlapa was one of Chief Taha Aki’s strongest spirit 
warriors — a powerful man, but a grasping man, too. 
He thought the people should use their magic to 
expand their lands, to enslave the Hohs and the 
Makahs and build an empire. 

“Now, when the warriors were their spirit selves, they 
knew each other’s thoughts. Taha Aki saw what 
Utlapa dreamed, and was angry with Utlapa. Utlapa 
was commanded to leave the people, and never use 
his spirit self again. Utlapa was a strong man, but the 
chiefs warriors outnumbered him. He had no choice 
but to leave. The furious outcast hid in the forest 
nearby, waiting for a chance to get revenge against 
the chief. 

“Even in times of peace, the Spirit Chief was vigilant 
in protecting his people. Often, he would go to a 
sacred, secret place in the mountains. He would leave 
his body behind and sweep down through the forests 
and along the coast, making sure no threat 
approached. 

“One day when Taha Aki left to perform this duty, 
Utlapa followed. At first, Utlapa simply planned to kill 
the chief, but this plan had its drawbacks. Surely the 
spirit warriors would seek to destroy him, and they 
could follow faster than he could escape. As he hid in 
the rocks and watched the chief prepare to leave his 
body, another plan occurred to him. 

“Taha Aki left his body in the secret place and flew 
with the winds to keep watch over his people. Utlapa 
waited until he was sure the chief had traveled some 
distance with his spirit self. 

“Taha Aki knew it the instant that Utlapa had joined 
him in the spirit world, and he also knew Utlapa’s 
murderous plan. He raced back to his secret place, 

264 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




but even the winds weren’t fast enough to save him. 
When he returned, his body was already gone. 

Utlapa’s body lay abandoned, but Utlapa had not left 
Taha Aki with an escape — he had cut his own body’s 
throat with Taha Aki’s hands. 

“Taha Aki followed his body down the mountain. He 
screamed at Utlapa, but Utlapa ignored him as if he 
were mere wind. 

“Taha Aki watched with despair as Utlapa took his 
place as chief of the Quileutes. For a few weeks, 

Utlapa did nothing but make sure that everyone 
believed he was Taha Aki. Then the changes began — 
Utlapa’s first edict was to forbid any warrior to enter 
the spirit world. He claimed that he’d had a vision of 
danger, but really he was afraid. He knew that Taha 
Aki would be waiting for the chance to tell his story. 
Utlapa was also afraid to enter the spirit world 
himself, knowing Taha Aki would quickly claim his 
body. So his dreams of conquest with a spirit warrior 
army were impossible, and he sought to content 
himself with ruling over the tribe. He became a 
burden — seeking privileges that Taha Aki had never 
requested, refusing to work alongside his warriors, 
taking a young second wife and then a third, though 
Taha Aki’s wife lived on — something unheard of in 
the tribe. Taha Aki watched in helpless fury. 

“Eventually, Taha Aki tried to kill his body to save the 
tribe from Utlapa’s excesses. He brought a fierce wolf 
down from the mountains, but Utlapa hid behind his 
warriors. When the wolf killed a young man who was 
protecting the false chief, Taha Aki felt horrible grief. 
He ordered the wolf away. 

“All the stories tell us that it was no easy thing to be a 
spirit warrior. It was more frightening than 
exhilarating to be freed from one’s body. This is why 

265 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




they only used their magic in times of need. The 
chiefs solitary journeys to keep watch were a burden 
and a sacrifice. Being bodiless was disorienting, 
uncomfortable, horrifying. Taha Aki had been away 
from his body for so long at this point that he was in 
agony. He felt he was doomed — never to cross over 
to the final land where his ancestors waited, stuck in 
this torturous nothingness forever. 

“The great wolf followed Taha Aki’s spirit as he 
twisted and writhed in agony through the woods. The 
wolf was very large for its kind, and beautiful. Taha 
Aki was suddenly jealous of the dumb animal. At 
least it had a body. At least it had a life. Even life as 
an animal would be better than this horrible empty 
consciousness. 

“And then Taha Aki had the idea that changed us all. 
He asked the great wolf to make room for him, to 
share. The wolf complied. Taka Aki entered the wolfs 
body with relief and gratitude. It was not his human 
body, but it was better than the void of the spirit 
world. 

“As one, the man and the wolf returned to the village 
on the harbor. The people ran in fear, shouting for the 
warriors to come. The warriors ran to meet the wolf 
with their spears. Utlapa, of course, stayed safely 
hidden. 

“Taha Aki did not attack his warriors. He retreated 
slowly from them, speaking with his eyes and trying 
to yelp the songs of his people. The warriors began to 
realize that the wolf was no ordinary animal, that 
there was a spirit influencing it. One older warrior, a 
man name Yut, decided to disobey the false chiefs 
order and try to communicate with the wolf. 



266 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“As soon as Yut crossed to the spirit world, Taha Aki 
left the wolf — the animal waited tamely for his return 
— to speak to him. Yut gathered the truth in an 
instant, and welcomed his true chief home. 

“At this time, Utlapa came to see if the wolf had been 
defeated. When he saw Yut lying lifeless on the 
ground, surrounded by protective warriors, he 
realized what was happening. He drew his knife and 
raced forward to kill Yut before he could return to his 
body. 

“Traitor,’ he screamed, and the warriors did not know 
what to do. The chief had forbidden spirit journeys, 
and it was the chiefs decision how to punish those 
who disobeyed. 

“Yut jumped back into his body, but Utlapa had his 
knife at his throat and a hand covering his mouth. 
Taha Aki’s body was strong, and Yut was weak with 
age. Yut could not say even one word to warn the 
others before Utlapa silenced him forever. 

“Taha Aki watched as Yut’s spirit slipped away to the 
final lands that were barred to Taha Aki for all 
eternity. He felt a great rage, more powerful than 
anything he’d felt before. He entered the big wolf 
again, meaning to rip Utlapa’s throat out. But, as he 
joined the wolf, the greatest magic happened. 

“Taha Aki’s anger was the anger of a man. The love he 
had for his people and the hatred he had for their 
oppressor were too vast for the wolf’s body, too 
human. The wolf shuddered, and — before the eyes of 
the shocked warriors and Utlapa — transformed into 
a man. 

“The new man did not look like Taha Aki’s body. He 
was far more glorious. He was the flesh interpretation 

267 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




of Taha Aki’s spirit. The warriors recognized him at 
once, though, for they had flown with Taha Aki’s 
spirit. 

“Utlapa tried to run, but Taha Aki had the strength of 
the wolf in his new body. He caught the thief and 
crushed the spirit from him before he could jump out 
of the stolen body. 

“The people rejoiced when they understood what had 
happened. Taha Aki quickly set everything right, 
working again with his people and giving the young 
wives back to their families. The only change he kept 
in place was the end of the spirit travels. He knew 
that it was too dangerous now that the idea of 
stealing a life was there. The spirit warriors were no 
more. 

“From that point on, Taha Aki was more than either 
wolf or man. They called him Taha Aki the Great Wolf, 
or Taha Aki the Spirit Man. He led the tribe for many, 
many years, for he did not age. When danger 
threatened, he would resume his wolf-self to fight or 
frighten the enemy. The people dwelt in peace. Taha 
Aki fathered many sons, and some of these found 
that, after they had reached the age of manhood, 
they, too, could transform into wolves. The wolves 
were all different, because they were spirit wolves and 
reflected the man they were inside.” 

“So that’s why Sam is all black,” Quil muttered under 
his breath, grinning. “Black heart, black fur.” 

I was so involved in the story, it was a shock to come 
back to the present, to the circle around the dying 
fire. With another shock, I realized that the circle was 
made up of Taha Aki’s great — to however many 
degrees — grandsons. 



268 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The fire threw a volley of sparks into the sky, and 
they shivered and danced, making shapes that were 
almost decipherable. 

“And your chocolate fur reflects what?” Sam 
whispered back to Quil. “How sweet you are?” 

Billy ignored their jibes. “Some of the sons became 
warriors with Taha Aki, and they no longer aged. 
Others, who did not like the transformation, refused 
to join the pack of wolf-men. These began to age 
again, and the tribe discovered that the wolf-men 
could grow old like anyone else if they gave up their 
spirit wolves. Taha Aki had lived the span of three old 
men’s lives. He had married a third wife after the 
deaths of the first two, and found in her his true 
spirit wife. Though he had loved the others, this was 
something else. He decided to give up his spirit wolf 
so that he would die when she did. 

“That is how the magic came to us, but it is not the 
end of the story... .” 

He looked at Old Quil Ateara, who shifted in his chair, 
straightening his frail shoulders. Billy took a drink 
from a bottle of water and wiped his forehead. Emily’s 
pen never hesitated as she scribbled furiously on the 
paper. 

“That was the story of the spirit warriors,” Old Quil 
began in a thin tenor voice. “This is the story of the 
third wife’s sacrifice. 

“Many years after Taha Aki gave up his spirit wolf, 
when he was an old man, trouble began in the north, 
with the Makahs. Several young women of their tribe 
had disappeared, and they blamed it on the 
neighboring wolves, who they feared and mistrusted. 
The wolf-men could still read each other’s thoughts 
269 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




while in their wolf forms, just like their ancestors had 
while in their spirit forms. They knew that none of 
their number was to blame. Taha Aki tried to pacify 
the Makah chief, but there was too much fear. Taha 
Aki did not want to have a war on his hands. He was 
no longer a warrior to lead his people. He charged his 
oldest wolf-son, Taha Wi, with finding the true culprit 
before hostilities began. 

“Taha Wi led the five other wolves in his pack on a 
search through the mountains, looking for any 
evidence of the missing Makahs. They came across 
something they had never encountered before — a 
strange, sweet scent in the forest that burned their 
noses to the point of pain.” 

I shrank a little closer to Jacob’s side. I saw the 
corner of his mouth twitch with humor, and his arm 
tightened around me. 

“They did not know what creature would leave such a 
scent, but they followed it,” Old Quil continued. His 
quavering voice did not have the majesty of Billy’s, 
but it had a strange, fierce edge of urgency about it. 
My pulse jumped as his words came faster. 

“They found faint traces of human scent, and human 
blood, along the trail. They were sure this was the 
enemy they were searching for. 

“The journey took them so far north that Taha Wi 
sent half the pack, the younger ones, back to the 
harbor to report to Taha Aki. 

“Taha Wi and his two brothers did not return. 

“The younger brothers searched for their elders, but 
found only silence. Taha Aki mourned for his sons. 

He wished to avenge his sons’ death, but he was old. 

270 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He went to the Makah chief in his mourning clothes 
and told him everything that had happened. The 
Makah chief believed his grief, and tensions ended 
between the tribes. 

“A year later, two Makah maidens disappeared from 
their homes on the same night. The Makahs called on 
the Quileute wolves at once, who found the same 
sweet stink all through the Makah village. The wolves 
went on the hunt again. 

“Only one came back. He was Yaha Uta, the oldest 
son of Taka Aki’s third wife, and the youngest in the 
pack. He brought something with him that had never 
been seen in all the days of the Quileutes — a 
strange, cold, stony corpse that he carried in pieces. 
All who were of Taha Aki’s blood, even those who had 
never been wolves, could smell the piercing smell of 
the dead creature. This was the enemy of the Makahs. 

“Yaha Uta described what had happened: he and his 
brothers had found the creature, who looked like a 
man but was hard as a granite rock, with the two 
Makah daughters. One girl was already dead, white 
and bloodless on the ground. The other was in the 
creature’s arms, his mouth at her throat. She may 
have been alive when they came upon the hideous 
scene, but the creature quickly snapped her neck and 
tossed her lifeless body to the ground when they 
approached. His white lips were covered in her blood, 
and his eyes glowed red. 

“Yaha Uta described the fierce strength and speed of 
the creature. One of his brothers quickly became a 
victim when he underestimated that strength. The 
creature ripped him apart like a doll. Yaha Uta and 
his other brother were more wary. They worked 
together, coming at the creature from the sides, 
outmaneuvering it. They had to reach the very limits 
271 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




of their wolf strength and speed, something that had 
never been tested before. The creature was hard as 
stone and cold as ice. They found that only their teeth 
could damage it. They began to rip small pieces of the 
creature apart while it fought them. 

“But the creature learned quickly, and soon was 
matching their maneuvers. It got its hands on Yaha 
Uta’s brother. Yaha Uta found an opening on the 
creature’s throat, and he lunged. His teeth tore the 
head off the creature, but the hands continued to 
mangle his brother. 

“Yaha Uta ripped the creature into unrecognizable 
chunks, tearing pieces apart in a desperate attempt to 
save his brother. He was too late, but, in the end, the 
creature was destroyed. 

“Or so they thought. Yaha Uta laid the reeking 
remains out to be examined by the elders. One 
severed hand lay beside a piece of the creature’s 
granite arm. The two pieces touched when the elders 
poked them with sticks, and the hand reached out 
towards the arm piece, trying to reassemble itself. 

“Horrified, the elders set fire to the remains. A great 
cloud of choking, vile smoke polluted the air. When 
there was nothing but ashes, they separated the 
ashes into many small bags and spread them far and 
wide — some in the ocean, some in the forest, some 
in the cliff caverns. Taha Aki wore one bag around his 
neck, so he would be warned if the creature ever tried 
to put himself together again.” 

Old Quil paused and looked at Billy. Billy pulled out a 
leather thong from around his neck. Hanging from 
the end was a small bag, blackened with age. A few 
people gasped. I might have been one of them. 



272 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“They called it The Cold One, the Blood Drinker, and 
lived in fear that it was not alone. They only had one 
wolf protector left, young Yaha Uta. 

“They did not have long to wait. The creature had a 
mate, another blood drinker, who came to the 
Quileutes seeking revenge. 

“The stories say that the Cold Woman was the most 
beautiful thing human eyes had ever seen. She looked 
like the goddess of the dawn when she entered the 
village that morning; the sun was shining for once, 
and it glittered off her white skin and lit the golden 
hair that flowed down to her knees. Her face was 
magical in its beauty, her eyes black in her white 
face. Some fell to their knees to worship her. 

“She asked something in a high, piercing voice, in a 
language no one had ever heard. The people were 
dumbfounded, not knowing how to answer her. There 
was none of Taha Aki’s blood among the witnesses 
but one small boy. He clung to his mother and 
screamed that the smell was hurting his nose. One of 
the elders, on his way to council, heard the boy and 
realized what had come among them. He yelled for the 
people to run. She killed him first. 

“There were twenty witnesses to the Cold Woman’s 
approach. Two survived, only because she grew 
distracted by the blood, and paused to sate her thirst. 
They ran to Taha Aki, who sat in counsel with the 
other elders, his sons, and his third wife. 

“Yaha Uta transformed into his spirit wolf as soon as 
he heard the news. He went to destroy the blood 
drinker alone. Taha Aki, his third wife, his sons, and 
his elders followed behind him. 



273 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“At first they could not find the creature, only the 
evidence of her attack. Bodies lay broken, a few 
drained of blood, strewn across the road where she’d 
appeared. Then they heard the screams and hurried 
to the harbor. 

“A handful of the Quileutes had run to the ships for 
refuge. She swam after them like a shark, and broke 
the bow of their boat with her incredible strength. 
When the ship sank, she caught those trying to swim 
away and broke them, too. 

“She saw the great wolf on the shore, and she forgot 
the fleeing swimmers. She swam so fast she was a 
blur and came, dripping and glorious, to stand before 
Yaha Uta. She pointed at him with one white finger 
and asked another incomprehensible question. Yaha 
Uta waited. 

“It was a close fight. She was not the warrior her mate 
had been. But Yaha Uta was alone — there was no 
one to distract her fury from him. 

“When Yaha Uta lost, Taha Aki screamed in defiance. 
He limped forward and shifted into an ancient, white- 
muzzled wolf. The wolf was old, but this was Taha Aki 
the Spirit Man, and his rage made him strong. The 
fight began again. 

“Taha Aki’s third wife had just seen her son die before 
her. Now her husband fought, and she had no hope 
that he could win. She’d heard every word the 
witnesses to the slaughter had told the council. She’d 
heard the story of Yaha Ufa’s first victory, and knew 
that his brother’s diversion had saved him. 

“The third wife grabbed a knife from the belt of one of 
the sons who stood beside her. They were all young 



274 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




sons, not yet men, and she knew they would die when 
their father failed. 



“The third wife ran toward the Cold Woman with the 
dagger raised high. The Cold Woman smiled, barely 
distracted from her fight with the old wolf. She had no 
fear of the weak human woman or the knife that 
would not even scratch her skin, and she was about 
to deliver the death blow to Taha Aki. 

“And then the third wife did something the Cold 
Woman did not expect. She fell to her knees at the 
blood drinker’s feet and plunged the knife into her 
own heart. 

“Blood spurted through the third wife’s fingers and 
splashed against the Cold Woman. The blood drinker 
could not resist the lure of the fresh blood leaving the 
third wife’s body. Instinctively, she turned to the 
dying woman, for one second entirely consumed by 
thirst. 

“Taha Aki’s teeth closed around her neck. 

“That was not the end of the fight, but Taha Aki was 
not alone now. Watching their mother die, two young 
sons felt such rage that they sprang forth as their 
spirit wolves, though they were not yet men. With 
their father, they finished the creature. 

“Taha Aki never rejoined the tribe. He never changed 
back to a man again. He lay for one day beside the 
body of the third wife, growling whenever anyone tried 
to touch her, and then he went into the forest and 
never returned. 

“Trouble with the cold ones was rare from that time 
on. Taha Aki’s sons guarded the tribe until their sons 
were old enough to take their places. There were 

275 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




never more than three wolves at a time. It was 
enough. Occasionally a blood drinker would come 
through these lands, but they were taken by surprise, 
not expecting the wolves. Sometimes a wolf would die, 
but never were they decimated again like that first 
time. They’d learned how to fight the cold ones, and 
they passed the knowledge on, wolf mind to wolf 
mind, spirit to spirit, father to son. 

“Time passed, and the descendants of Taha Aki no 
longer became wolves when they reached manhood. 
Only in a great while, if a cold one was near, would 
the wolves return. The cold ones always came in ones 
and twos, and the pack stayed small. 

“A bigger coven came, and your own great- 
grandfathers prepared to fight them off. But the 
leader spoke to Ephraim Black as if he were a man, 
and promised not to harm the Quileutes. His strange 
yellow eyes gave some proof to his claim that they 
were not the same as other blood drinkers. The 
wolves were outnumbered; there was no need for the 
cold ones to offer a treaty when they could have won 
the fight. Ephraim accepted. They’ve stayed true to 
their side, though their presence does tend to draw in 
others. 

“And their numbers have forced a larger pack than 
the tribe has ever seen,” Old Quil said, and for one 
moment his black eyes, all but buried in the wrinkles 
of skin folded around them, seemed to rest on me. 
“Except, of course, in Taha Aki’s time,” he said, and 
then he sighed. “And so the sons of our tribe again 
carry the burden and share the sacrifice their fathers 
endured before them.” 

All was silent for a long moment. The living 
descendants of magic and legend stared at one 



276 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




another across the fire with sadness in their eyes. All 
but one. 

“Burden,” he scoffed in a low voice. “I think it’s cool.” 
Quil’s full lower lip pouted out a little bit. 

Across the dying fire, Seth Clearwater — his eyes wide 
with adulation for the fraternity of tribal protectors — 
nodded his agreement. 

Billy chuckled, low and long, and the magic seemed 
to fade into the glowing embers. Suddenly, it was just 
a circle of friends again. Jared flicked a small stone at 
Quil, and everyone laughed when it made him jump. 
Low conversations murmured around us, teasing and 
casual. 

Leah Clearwater’s eyes did not open. I thought I saw 
something sparkling on her cheek like a tear, but 
when I looked back a moment later it was gone. 

Neither Jacob nor I spoke. He was so still beside me, 
his breath so deep and even, that I thought he might 
be close to sleep. 

My mind was a thousand years away. I was not 
thinking of Yaha Uta or the other wolves, or the 
beautiful Cold Woman — I could picture her only too 
easily. No, I was thinking of someone outside the 
magic altogether. I was trying to imagine the face of 
the unnamed woman who had saved the entire tribe, 
the third wife. 

Just a human woman, with no special gifts or powers. 
Physically weaker and slower than any of the 
monsters in the story. But she had been the key, the 
solution. She’d saved her husband, her young sons, 
her tribe. 



277 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I wish they’d remembered her name... . 

Something shook my arm. 

“C’mon, Bells,” Jacob said in my ear. “We’re here.” 

I blinked, confused because the fire seemed to have 
disappeared. I glared into the unexpected darkness, 
trying to make sense of my surroundings. It took me 
a minute to realize that I was no longer on the cliff. 
Jacob and I were alone. I was still under his arm, but 
I wasn’t on the ground anymore. 

How did I get in Jacob’s car? 

“Oh, crap!” I gasped as I realized that I had fallen 
asleep. “How late is it? Dang it, where’s that stupid 
phone?” I patted my pockets, frantic and coming up 
empty. 

“Easy. It’s not even midnight yet. And I already called 
him for you. Look — he’s waiting there.” 

“Midnight?” I repeated stupidly, still disoriented. I 
stared into the darkness, and my heartbeat picked up 
when my eyes made out the shape of the Volvo, thirty 
yards away. I reached for the door handle. 

“Here,” Jacob said, and he put a small shape into my 
other hand. The phone. 

“You called Edward for me?” 

My eyes were adjusted enough to see the bright gleam 
of Jacob’s smile. “I figured if I played nice, I’d get 
more time with you.” 



278 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thanks, Jake,” I said, touched. “Really, thank you. 
And thanks for inviting me tonight. That was ...” 
Words failed me. “Wow. That was something else.” 

“And you didn’t even stay up to watch me swallow a 
cow.” He laughed. “No, I’m glad you liked it. It was ... 
nice for me. Having you there.” 

There was a movement in the dark distance — 
something pale ghosting against the black trees. 
Pacing? 

“Yeah, he’s not so patient, is he?” Jacob said, noticing 
my distraction. “Go ahead. But come back soon, 
okay?” 

“Sure, Jake,” I promised, cracking the car door open. 
Cold air washed across my legs and made me shiver. 

“Sleep tight, Bells. Don’t worry about anything — I’ll 
be watching out for you tonight.” 

I paused, one foot on the ground. “No, Jake. Get some 
rest, I’ll be fine.” 

“Sure, sure,” he said, but he sounded more 
patronizing than agreeing. 

“ ’Night, Jake. Thanks.” 

“’Night, Bella,” he whispered as I hurried into the 
darkness. 

Edward caught me at the boundary line. 

“Bella,” he said, relief strong in his voice; his arms 
wound tightly around me. 

“Hi. Sorry I’m so late. I fell asleep and — ” 

279 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I know. Jacob explained.” He started toward the car, 
and I staggered woodenly at his side. “Are you tired? I 
could carry you.” 

“I’m fine.” 

“Let’s get you home and in bed. Did you have a nice 
time?” 

“Yeah — it was amazing, Edward. I wish you could 
have come. I can’t even explain it. Jake’s dad told us 
the old legends and it was like ... like magic.” 

“You’ll have to tell me about it. After you’ve slept.” 

“I won’t get it right,” I said, and then I yawned hugely. 

Edward chuckled. He opened my door for me, lifted 
me in, and buckled my seat belt around me. 

Bright lights flashed on and swept across us. I waved 
toward Jacob’s headlights, but I didn’t know if he saw 
the gesture. 

That night — after I’d gotten past Charlie, who didn’t 
give me as much trouble as I’d expected because 
Jacob had called him, too — instead of collapsing in 
bed right away, I leaned out the open window while I 
waited for Edward to come back. The night was 
surprisingly cold, almost wintry. I hadn’t noticed it at 
all on the windy cliffs; I imagined that had less to do 
with the fire than it did with sitting next to Jacob. 

Icy droplets spattered against my face as the rain 
began to fall. 

It was too dark to see much besides the black 
triangles of the spruces leaning and shaking with the 
wind. But I strained my eyes anyway, searching for 

280 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




other shapes in the storm. A pale silhouette, moving 
like a ghost through the black ... or maybe the 
shadowy outline of an enormous wolf. . . . My eyes 
were too weak. 

Then there was a movement in the night, right beside 
me. Edward slid through my open window, his hands 
colder than the rain. 

“Is Jacob out there?” I asked, shivering as Edward 
pulled me into the circle of his arm. 

“Yes ... somewhere. And Esme’s on her way home.” 

I sighed. “It’s so cold and wet. This is silly.” I shivered 
again. 

He chuckled. “It’s only cold to you, Bella.” 

It was cold in my dream that night, too, maybe 
because I slept in Edward’s arms. But I dreamt I was 
outside in the storm, the wind whipping my hair in 
my face and blinding my eyes. I stood on the rocky 
crescent of First Beach, trying to understand the 
quickly moving shapes I could only dimly see in the 
darkness at the shore’s edge. At first, there was 
nothing but a flash of white and black, darting toward 
each other and dancing away. And then, as if the 
moon had suddenly broken from the clouds, I could 
see everything. 

Rosalie, her hair swinging wet and golden down to the 
back of her knees, was lunging at an enormous wolf 
— its muzzle shot through with silver — that I 
instinctively recognized as Billy Black. 

I broke into a run, but found myself moving in the 
frustrating slow motion of dreamers. I tried to scream 
to them, to tell them to stop, but my voice was stolen 

281 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




by the wind, and I could make no sound. I waved my 
arms, hoping to catch their attention. Something 
flashed in my hand, and I noticed for the first time 
that my right hand wasn’t empty. 

I held a long, sharp blade, ancient and silver, crusted 
in dried, blackened blood. 

I cringed away from the knife, and my eyes snapped 
open to the quiet darkness of my bedroom. The first 
thing I realized was that I was not alone, and I turned 
to bury my face in Edward’s chest, knowing the sweet 
scent of his skin would chase the nightmare away 
more effectively than anything else. 

“Did I wake you?” he whispered. There was the sound 
of paper, the ruffling of pages, and a faint thump as 
something light fell to the wooden floor. 

“No,” I mumbled, sighing in contentment as his arms 
tightened around me. “I had a bad dream.” 

“Do you want to tell me about it?” 

I shook my head. “Too tired. Maybe in the morning, if 
I remember.” 

I felt a silent laugh shake through him. 

“In the morning,” he agreed. 

“What were you reading?” I muttered, not really 
awake at all. 

“Wuthering Heights,” he said. 

I frowned sleepily. “I thought you didn’t like that 
book.” 



282 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You left it out,” he murmured, his soft voice lulling 
me toward unconsciousness. “Besides ... the more 
time I spend with you, the more human emotions 
seem comprehensible to me. I’m discovering that I 
can sympathize with Heathcliff in ways I didn’t think 
possible before.” 

“Mmm,” I sighed. 

He said something else, something low, but I was 
already asleep. 

The next morning dawned pearl gray and still. 

Edward asked me about my dream, but I couldn’t get 
a handle on it. I only remembered that I was cold, and 
that I was glad he was there when I woke up. He 
kissed me, long enough to get my pulse racing, and 
then headed home to change and get his car. 

I dressed quickly, low on options. Whoever had 
ransacked my hamper had critically impaired my 
wardrobe. If it wasn’t so frightening, it would be 
seriously annoying. 

As I was about to head down for breakfast, I noticed 
my battered copy of Wuthering Heights lying open on 
the floor where Edward had dropped it in the night, 
holding his place the way the damaged binding 
always held mine. 

I picked it up curiously, trying to remember what he’d 
said. Something about feeling sympathy for 
Heathcliff, of all people. That couldn’t be right; I must 
have dreamed that part. 

Three words on the open page caught my eye, and I 
bent my head to read the paragraph more closely. It 
was Heathcliff speaking, and I knew the passage well. 



283 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




And there you see the distinction between our 
feelings: had he been in my place and I in his, though 
I hated him with a hatred that turned my life to gall, I 
never would have raised a hand against him. You may 
look incredulous, if you please! I never would have 
banished him from her society as long as she desired 
his. The moment her regard ceased, I would have torn 
his heart out, and drank his blood! But, till then — if 
you don’t believe me, you don’t know me — till then, I 
would have died by inches before I touched a single 
hair of his head! 

The three words that had caught my eye were “drank 
his blood.” 

I shuddered. 

Yes, surely I must have dreamt that Edward said 
anything positive about Heathcliff. And this page was 
probably not the page he’d been reading. The book 
could have fallen open to any page. 



284 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




TIME 




“I have foreseen ... Alice began in an ominous tone. 

Edward threw an elbow toward her ribs, which she 
neatly dodged. 

“Fine,” she grumbled. “Edward is making me do this. 
But I did foresee that you would be more difficult if I 
surprised you.” 

We were walking to the car after school, and I was 
completely clueless as to what she was talking about. 

“In English?” I requested. 

“Don’t be a baby about this. No tantrums.” 

“Now I’m scared.” 

“So you’re — I mean we’re — having a graduation 
party. It’s no big thing. Nothing to freak out over. But 
I saw that you would freak out if I tried to make it a 
surprise party” — she danced out of the way as 
Edward reached over to muss her hair — “and 
Edward said I had to tell you. But it’s nothing. 
Promise.” 

I sighed heavily. “Is there any point in arguing?” 

“None at all.” 

“Okay, Alice. I’ll be there. And I’ll hate every minute of 
it. Promise.” 



285 I P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



“That’s the spirit! By the way, I love my gift. You 
shouldn’t have.” 

“Alice, I didn’t!” 

“Oh, I know that. But you will.” 

I racked my brains in panic, trying to remember what 
I’d ever decided to get her for graduation that she 
might have seen. 

“Amazing,” Edward muttered. “How can someone so 
tiny be so annoying?” 

Alice laughed. “It’s a talent.” 

“Couldn’t you have waited a few weeks to tell me 
about this?” I asked petulantly. “Now I’ll just be 
stressed that much longer.” 

Alice frowned at me. 

“Bella,” she said slowly. “Do you know what day it is?” 
“Monday?” 

She rolled her eyes. “Yes. It is Monday ... the fourth.” 
She grabbed my elbow, spun me halfway around, and 
pointed toward a big yellow poster taped to the gym 
door. There, in sharp black letters, was the date of 
graduation. Exactly one week from today. 

“It’s the fourth? Of June? Are you sure?” 

Neither one answered. Alice just shook her head 
sadly, feigning disappointment, and Edward’s 
eyebrows lifted. 



286 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It can’t be! How did that happen?” I tried to count 
backwards in my head, but I couldn’t figure out 
where the days had gone. 

I felt like someone had kicked my legs out from under 
me. The weeks of stress, of worry ... somehow in the 
middle of all my obsessing over the time, my time had 
disappeared. My space for sorting through it all, for 
making plans, had vanished. I was out of time. 

And I wasn’t ready. 

I didn’t know how to do this. How to say goodbye to 
Charlie and Renee ... to Jacob ... to being human. 

I knew exactly what I wanted, but I was suddenly 
terrified of getting it. 

In theory, I was anxious, even eager to trade mortality 
for immortality. After all, it was the key to staying 
with Edward forever. And then there was the fact that 
I was being hunted by known and unknown parties. 

I’d rather not sit around, helpless and delicious, 
waiting for one of them to catch up with me. 

In theory, that all made sense. 

In practice . . . being human was all I knew. The future 
beyond that was a big, dark abyss that I couldn’t 
know until I leaped into it. 

This simple knowledge, today’s date — which was so 
obvious that I must have been subconsciously 
repressing it — made the deadline I’d been 
impatiently counting down toward feel like a date with 
the firing squad. 

In a vague way, I was aware of Edward holding the 
car door for me, of Alice chattering from the backseat, 

287 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




of the rain hammering against the windshield. 

Edward seemed to realize I was only there in body; he 
didn’t try to pull me out of my abstraction. Or maybe 
he did, and I was past noticing. 

We ended up at my house, where Edward led me to 
the sofa and pulled me down next to him. I stared out 
the window, into the liquid gray haze, and tried to 
find where my resolve had gone. Why was I panicking 
now? I’d known the deadline was coming. Why should 
it frighten me that it was here? 

I don’t know how long he let me stare out the window 
in silence. But the rain was disappearing into 
darkness when it was finally too much for him. 

He put his cold hands on either side of my face and 
fixed his golden eyes on mine. 

“Would you please tell me what you are thinking? 
Before I go mad?” 

What could I say to him? That I was a coward? I 
searched for words. 

“Your lips are white. Talk, Bella.” 

I exhaled in a big gust. How long had I been holding 
my breath? 

“The date took me off guard,” I whispered. “That’s all.” 

He waited, his face full of worry and skepticism. 

I tried to explain. “I’m not sure what to do ... what to 
tell Charlie ... what to say ... how to ...” My voice 
trailed off. 

“This isn’t about the party?” 

288 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I frowned. “No. But thanks for reminding me.” 

The rain was louder as he read my face. 

“You’re not ready,” he whispered. 

“I am,” I lied immediately, a reflex reaction. I could tell 
he saw through it, so I took a deep breath, and told 
the truth. “I have to be.” 

“You don’t have to be anything.” 

I could feel the panic surfacing in my eyes as I 
mouthed the reasons. “Victoria, Jane, Caius, whoever 
was in my room ... !” 

“All the more reason to wait.” 

“That doesn’t make any sense, Edward!” 

He pressed his hands more tightly to my face and 
spoke with slow deliberation. 

“Bella. Not one of us had a choice. You’ve seen what 
it’s done ... to Rosalie especially. We’ve all struggled, 
trying to reconcile ourselves with something we had 
no control over. I won’t let it be that way for you. You 
will have a choice.” 

“I’ve already made my choice.” 

“You aren’t going through with this because a sword 
is hanging over your head. We will take care of the 
problems, and I will take care of you,” he vowed. 
“When we’re through it, and there is nothing forcing 
your hand, then you can decide to join me, if you still 
want to. But not because you’re afraid. You won’t be 
forced into this.” 



289 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Carlisle promised,” I mumbled, contrary out of habit. 
“After graduation.” 

“Not until you’re ready,” he said in a sure voice. “And 
definitely not while you feel threatened.” 

I didn’t answer. I didn’t have it in me to argue; I 
couldn’t seem to find my commitment at the moment. 

“There.” He kissed my forehead. “Nothing to worry 
about.” 

I laughed a shaky laugh. “Nothing but impending 
doom.” 

“Trust me.” 

“I do.” 

He was still watching my face, waiting for me to relax. 
“Can I ask you something?” I said. 

“Anything.” 

I hesitated, biting my lip, and then asked a different 
question than the one I was worried about. 

“What am I getting Alice for graduation?” 

He snickered. “It looked like you were getting us both 
concert tickets — ” 

“That’s right!” I was so relieved, I almost smiled. “The 
concert in Tacoma. I saw an ad in the paper last 
week, and I thought it would be something you’d like, 
since you said it was a good CD.” 

“It’s a great idea. Thank you.” 

290 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I hope it’s not sold out.” 



“It’s the thought that counts. I ought to know.” 

I sighed. 

“There’s something else you meant to ask,” he said. 

I frowned. “You’re good.” 

“I have lots of practice reading your face. Ask me.” 

I closed my eyes and leaned into him, hiding my face 
against his chest. “You don’t want me to be a 
vampire.” 

“No, I don’t,” he said softly, and then he waited for 
more. “That’s not a question,” he prompted after a 
moment. 

“Well ... I was worrying about ... why you feel that 
way.” 

“Worrying?” He picked out the word with surprise. 

“Would you tell me why? The whole truth, not sparing 
my feelings?” 

He hesitated for a minute. “If I answer your question, 
will you then explain your question?” 

I nodded, my face still hidden. 

He took a deep breath before he answered. “You could 
do so much better, Bella. I know that you believe I 
have a soul, but I’m not entirely convinced on that 
point, and to risk yours ...” He shook his head slowly. 
“For me to allow this — to let you become what I am 
just so that I’ll never have to lose you — is the most 
291 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




selfish act I can imagine. I want it more than 
anything, for myself. But for you, I want so much 
more. Giving in — it feels criminal. It’s the most 
selfish thing 111 ever do, even if I live forever. 

“If there were any way for me to become human for 
you — no matter what the price was, I would pay it.” 

I sat very still, absorbing this. 

Edward thought he was being selfish. 

I felt the smile slowly spread across my face. 

“So ... it’s not that you’re afraid you won’t ... like me 
as much when I’m different — when I’m not soft and 
warm and I don’t smell the same? You really do want 
to keep me, no matter how I turn out?” 

He exhaled sharply. “You were worried I wouldn’t like 
you?” he demanded. Then, before I could answer, he 
was laughing. “Bella, for a fairly intuitive person, you 
can be so obtuse!” 

I knew he would think it silly, but I was relieved. If he 
really wanted me, I could get through the rest ... 
somehow. Selfish suddenly seemed like a beautiful 
word. 

“I don’t think you realize how much easier it will be 
for me, Bella,” he said, the echo of his humor still 
there in his voice, “when I don’t have to concentrate 
all the time on not killing you. Certainly, there are 
things I’ll miss. This for one ...” 

He stared into my eyes as he stroked my cheek, and I 
felt the blood rush up to color my skin. He laughed 
gently. 



292 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“And the sound of your heart,” he continued, more 
serious but still smiling a little. “It’s the most 
significant sound in my world. I’m so attuned to it 
now, I swear I could pick it out from miles away. But 
neither of these things matter. This,” he said, taking 
my face in his hands. “You. That’s what I’m keeping. 
You’ll always be my Bella, you’ll just be a little more 
durable.” 

I sighed and let my eyes close in contentment, resting 
there in his hands. 

“Now will you answer a question for me? The whole 
truth, not sparing my feelings?” he asked. 

“Of course,” I answered at once, my eyes opening wide 
with surprise. What would he want to know? 

He spoke the words slowly. “You don’t want to be my 
wife.” 

My heart stopped, and then broke into a sprint. A 
cold sweat dewed on the back of my neck and my 
hands turned to ice. 

He waited, watching and listening to my reaction. 

“That’s not a question,” I finally whispered. 

He looked down, his lashes casting long shadows 
across his cheekbones, and dropped his hands from 
my face to pick up my frozen left hand. He played 
with my fingers while he spoke. 

“I was worrying about why you felt that way.” 

I tried to swallow. “That’s not a question, either,” I 
whispered. 



293 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Please, Bella?” 



“The truth?” I asked, only mouthing the words. 

“Of course. I can take it, whatever it is.” 

I took a deep breath. “You’re going to laugh at me.” 

His eyes flashed up to mine, shocked. “Laugh? I 
cannot imagine that.” 

“You’ll see,” I muttered, and then I sighed. My face 
went from white to scarlet in a sudden blaze of 
chagrin. “Okay, fine! I’m sure this will sound like 
some big joke to you, but really! It’s just so ... so ... so 
embarrassing!” I confessed, and I hid my face against 
his chest again. 

There was a brief pause. 

“I’m not following you.” 

I tilted my head back and glared at him, 
embarrassment making me lash out, belligerent. 

“I’m not that girl, Edward. The one who gets married 
right out of high school like some small-town hick 
who got knocked up by her boyfriend! Do you know 
what people would think? Do you realize what 
century this is? People don’t just get married at 
eighteen! Not smart people, not responsible, mature 
people! I wasn’t going to be that girl! That’s not who I 
am... .” I trailed off, losing steam. 

Edward’s face was impossible to read as he thought 
through my answer. 

“That’s all?” he finally asked. 



294 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I blinked. “Isn’t that enough?” 



“It’s not that you were ... more eager for immortality 
itself than for just me?” 

And then, though I’d predicted that he would laugh, I 
was suddenly the one having hysterics. 

“Edward!” I gasped out between the paroxysms of 
giggles. “And here ... I always ... thought that ... you 
were ... so much ... smarter than me!” 

He took me in his arms, and I could feel that he was 
laughing with me. 

“Edward,” I said, managing to speak more clearly with 
a little effort, “there’s no point to forever without you. 

I wouldn’t want one day without you.” 

“Well, that’s a relief,” he said. 

“Still ... it doesn’t change anything.” 

“It’s nice to understand, though. And I do understand 
your perspective, Bella, truly I do. But I’d like it very 
much if you’d try to consider mine.” 

I’d sobered up by then, so I nodded and struggled to 
keep the frown off my face. 

His liquid gold eyes turned hypnotic as they held 
mine. 

“You see, Bella, I was always that boy. In my world, I 
was already a man. I wasn’t looking for love — no, I 
was far too eager to be a soldier for that; I thought of 
nothing but the idealized glory of the war that they 
were selling prospective draftees then — but if I had 
found ...” He paused, cocking his head to the side. “I 
295 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




was going to say if I had found someone, but that 
won’t do. If I had found you, there isn’t a doubt in my 
mind how I would have proceeded. I was that boy, 
who would have — as soon as I discovered that you 
were what I was looking for — gotten down on one 
knee and endeavored to secure your hand. I would 
have wanted you for eternity, even when the word 
didn’t have quite the same connotations.” 

He smiled his crooked smile at me. 

I stared at him with my eyes frozen wide. 

“Breathe, Bella,” he reminded me, smiling. 

I breathed. 

“Can you see my side, Bella, even a little bit?” 

And for one second, I could. I saw myself in a long 
skirt and a high-necked lace blouse with my hair 
piled up on my head. I saw Edward looking dashing 
in a light suit with a bouquet of wildflowers in his 
hand, sitting beside me on a porch swing. 

I shook my head and swallowed. I was just having 
Anne of Green Gables flashbacks. 

“The thing is, Edward,” I said in a shaky voice, 
avoiding the question, “in my mind, marriage and 
eternity are not mutually exclusive or mutually 
inclusive concepts. And since we’re living in my world 
for the moment, maybe we should go with the times, 
if you know what I mean.” 

“But on the other hand,” he countered, “you will soon 
be leaving time behind you altogether. So why should 
the transitory customs of one local culture affect the 
decision so much?” 

296 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I pursed my lips. “When in Rome?” 

He laughed at me. “You don’t have to say yes or no 
today, Bella. It’s good to understand both sides, 
though, don’t you think?” 

“So your condition ... ?” 

“Is still in effect. I do see your point, Bella, but if you 
want me to change you myself... .” 

“Dum, dum, dah-dum,” I hummed under my breath. I 
was going for the wedding march, but it sort of 
sounded like a dirge. 

Time continued to move too fast. 

That night flew by dreamlessly, and then it was 
morning and graduation was staring me in the face. I 
had a pile of studying to do for my finals that I knew I 
wouldn’t get halfway through in the few days I had 
left. 

When I came down for breakfast, Charlie was already 
gone. He’d left the paper on the table, and that 
reminded me that I had some shopping to do. I hoped 
the ad for the concert was still running; I needed the 
phone number to get the stupid tickets. It didn’t seem 
like much of a gift now that all the surprise was gone. 
Of course, trying to surprise Alice wasn’t the brightest 
plan to begin with. 

I meant to flip right back to the entertainment 
section, but the thick black headline caught my 
attention. I felt a thrill of fear as I leaned closer to 
read the front-page story. 

SEATTLE TERRORIZED BY SLAYINGS 



297 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It’s been less than a decade since the city of Seattle 
was the hunting ground for the most prolific serial 
killer in U.S. history. Gary Ridgway, the Green River 
Killer, was convicted of the murders of 48 women. 

And now a beleaguered Seattle must face the 
possibility that it could be harboring an even more 
horrifying monster at this very moment. 

The police are not calling the recent rash of homicides 
and disappearances the work of a serial killer. Not 
yet, at least. They are reluctant to believe so much 
carnage could be the work of one individual. This 
killer — if, in fact, it is one person — would then be 
responsible for 39 linked homicides and 
disappearances within the last three months alone. In 
comparison, Ridgway’s 48-count murder spree was 
scattered over a 21 -year period. If these deaths can be 
linked to one man, then this is the most violent 
rampage of serial murder in American history. 

The police are leaning instead toward the theory that 
gang activity is involved. This theory is supported by 
the sheer number of victims, and by the fact that 
there seems to be no pattern in the choice of victims. 

From Jack the Ripper to Ted Bundy, the targets of 
serial killings are usually connected by similarities in 
age, gender, race, or a combination of the three. The 
victims of this crime wave range in age from 15 -year- 
old honor student Amanda Reed, to 67-year-old 
retired postman Omar Jenks. The linked deaths 
include a nearly even 18 women and 21 men. The 
victims are racially diverse: Caucasians, African 
Americans, Hispanics and Asians. 

The selection appears random. The motive seems to 
be killing for no other reason than to kill. 



298 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




So why even consider the idea of a serial killer? 

There are enough similarities in the modus operandi 
to rule out unrelated crimes. Every victim discovered 
has been burned to the extent that dental records 
were necessary for identification. The use of some 
kind of accelerant, like gasoline or alcohol, seems to 
be indicated in the conflagrations; however, no traces 
of any accelerant have yet been found. All of the 
bodies have been carelessly dumped with no attempt 
at concealment. 

More gruesome yet, most of the remains show 
evidence of brutal violence — bones crushed and 
snapped by some kind of tremendous pressure — 
which medical examiners believe occurred before the 
time of death, though these conclusions are difficult 
to be sure of, considering the state of the evidence. 

Another similarity that points to the possibility of a 
serial: every crime is perfectly clean of evidence, aside 
from the remains themselves. Not a fingerprint, not a 
tire tread mark nor a foreign hair is left behind. There 
have been no sightings of any suspect in the 
disappearances . 

Then there are the disappearances themselves — 
hardly low profile by any means. None of the victims 
are what could be viewed as easy targets. None are 
runaways or the homeless, who vanish so easily and 
are seldom reported missing. Victims have vanished 
from their homes, from a fourth-story apartment, 
from a health club, from a wedding reception. 

Perhaps the most astounding: 30-year-old amateur 
boxer Robert Walsh entered a movie theater with a 
date; a few minutes into the movie, the woman 
realized that he was not in his seat. His body was 
found only three hours later when fire fighters were 



299 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




called to the scene of a burning trash Dumpster, 
twenty miles away. 

Another pattern is present in the slayings: all of the 
victims disappeared at night. 

And the most alarming pattern? Acceleration. Six of 
the homicides were committed in the first month, 1 1 
in the second. Twenty-two have occurred in the last 
10 days alone. And the police are no closer to finding 
the responsible party than they were after the first 
charred body was discovered. 

The evidence is conflicting, the pieces horrifying. A 
vicious new gang or a wildly active serial killer? Or 
something else the police haven’t yet conceived of? 

Only one conclusion is indisputable: something 
hideous is stalking Seattle. 

It took me three tries to read the last sentence, and I 
realized the problem was my shaking hands. 

“Bella?” 

Focused as I was, Edward’s voice, though quiet and 
not totally unexpected, made me gasp and whirl. 

He was leaning in the doorway, his eyebrows pulled 
together. Then he was suddenly at my side, taking my 
hand. 

“Did I startle you? I’m sorry. I did knock... .” 

“No, no,” I said quickly. “Have you seen this?” I 
pointed to the paper. 

A frown creased his forehead. 



300 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I hadn’t seen today’s news yet. But I knew it was 
getting worse. We’re going to have to do something ... 
quickly.” 

I didn’t like that. I hated any of them taking chances, 
and whatever or whoever was in Seattle was truly 
beginning to frighten me. But the idea of the Volturi 
coming was just as scary. 

“What does Alice say?” 

“That’s the problem.” His frown hardened. “She can’t 
see anything ... though we’ve made up our minds half 
a dozen times to check it out. She’s starting to lose 
confidence. She feels like she’s missing too much 
these days, that something’s wrong. That maybe her 
vision is slipping away.” 

My eyes were wide. “Can that happen?” 

“Who knows? No one’s ever done a study ... but I 
really doubt it. These things tend to intensify over 
time. Look at Aro and Jane.” 

“Then what’s wrong?” 

“Self-fulfilling prophecy, I think. We keep waiting for 
Alice to see something so we can go ... and she 
doesn’t see anything because we won’t really go until 
she does. So she can’t see us there. Maybe we’ll have 
to do it blind.” 

I shuddered. “No.” 

“Did you have a strong desire to attend class today? 
We’re only a couple of days from finals; they won’t be 
giving us anything new.” 



301 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I think I can live without school for a day. What are 
we doing?” 

“I want to talk to Jasper.” 

Jasper, again. It was strange. In the Cullen family, 
Jasper was always a little on the fringe, part of things 
but never the center of them. It was my unspoken 
assumption that he was only there for Alice. I had the 
sense that he would follow Alice anywhere, but that 
this lifestyle was not his first choice. The fact that he 
was less committed to it than the others was probably 
why he had more difficulty keeping it up. 

At any rate, I’d never seen Edward feel dependent on 
Jasper. I wondered again what he’d meant about 
Jasper’s expertise. I really didn’t know much about 
Jasper’s history, just that he had come from 
somewhere in the south before Alice found him. For 
some reason, Edward had always shied away from 
any questions about his newest brother. And I’d 
always been too intimidated by the tall, blond vampire 
who looked like a brooding movie star to ask him 
outright. 

When we got to the house, we found Carlisle, Esme, 
and Jasper watching the news intently, though the 
sound was so low that it was unintelligible to me. 

Alice was perched on the bottom step of the grand 
staircase, her face in her hands and her expression 
discouraged. As we walked in, Emmett ambled 
through the kitchen door, seeming perfectly at ease. 
Nothing ever bothered Emmett. 

“Hey, Edward. Ditching, Bella?” He grinned at me. 

“We both are,” Edward reminded him. 



302 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett laughed. “Yes, but it’s her first time through 
high school. She might miss something.” 

Edward rolled his eyes, but otherwise ignored his 
favorite brother. He tossed the paper to Carlisle. 

“Did you see that they’re considering a serial killer 
now?” he asked. 

Carlisle sighed. “They’ve had two specialists debating 
that possibility on CNN all morning.” 

“We can’t let this go on.” 

“Let’s go now,” Emmett said with sudden enthusiasm. 
“I’m dead bored.” 

A hiss echoed down the stairway from upstairs. 

“She’s such a pessimist,” Emmett muttered to 
himself. 

Edward agreed with Emmett. “We’ll have to go 
sometime.” 

Rosalie appeared at the top of the stairs and 
descended slowly. Her face was smooth, 
expressionless. 

Carlisle was shaking his head. “I’m concerned. We’ve 
never involved ourselves in this kind of thing before. 
It’s not our business. We aren’t the Volturi.” 

“I don’t want the Volturi to have to come here,” 
Edward said. “It gives us so much less reaction time.” 

“And all those innocent humans in Seattle,” Esme 
murmured. “It’s not right to let them die this way.” 



303 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I know,” Carlisle sighed. 

“Oh,” Edward said sharply, turning his head slightly 
to look at Jasper. “I didn’t think of that. I see. You’re 
right, that has to be it. Well, that changes everything.” 

I wasn’t the only one who stared at him in confusion, 
but I might have been the only one who didn’t look 
slightly annoyed. 

“I think you’d better explain to the others,” Edward 
said to Jasper. “What could be the purpose of this?” 
Edward started to pace, staring at the floor, lost in 
thought. 

I hadn’t seen her get up, but Alice was there beside 
me. “What is he rambling about?” she asked Jasper. 
“What are you thinking?” 

Jasper didn’t seem to enjoy the spotlight. He 
hesitated, reading every face in the circle — for 
everyone had moved in to hear what he would say — 
and then his eyes paused on my face. 

“You’re confused,” he said to me, his deep voice very 
quiet. 

There was no question in his assumption. Jasper 
knew what I was feeling, what everyone was feeling. 

“We’re all confused,” Emmett grumbled. 

“You can afford the time to be patient,” Jasper told 
him. “Bella should understand this, too. She’s one of 
us now.” 

His words took me by surprise. As little as I’d had to 
do with Jasper, especially since my last birthday 



304 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




when he’d tried to kill me, I hadn’t realize that he 
thought of me that way. 



“How much do you know about me, Bella?” Jasper 
asked. 

Emmett sighed theatrically, and plopped down on the 
couch to wait with exaggerated impatience. 

“Not much,” I admitted. 

Jasper stared at Edward, who looked up to meet his 
gaze. 

“No,” Edward answered his thought. “I’m sure you 
can understand why I haven’t told her that story. But 
I suppose she needs to hear it now.” 

Jasper nodded thoughtfully, and then started to roll 
up the arm of his ivory sweater. 

I watched, curious and confused, trying to figure out 
what he was doing. He held his wrist under the edge 
of the lampshade beside him, close to the light of the 
naked bulb, and traced his finger across a raised 
crescent mark on the pale skin. 

It took me a minute to understand why the shape 
looked strangely familiar. 

“Oh,” I breathed as realization hit. “Jasper, you have 
a scar exactly like mine.” 

I held out my hand, the silvery crescent more 
prominent against my cream skin than against his 
alabaster. 

Jasper smiled faintly. “I have a lot of scars like yours, 
Bella.” 

305 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper’s face was unreadable as he pushed the sleeve 
of his thin sweater higher up his arm. At first my eyes 
could not make sense of the texture that was layered 
thickly across the skin. Curved half-moons 
crisscrossed in a feathery pattern that was only 
visible, white on white as it was, because the bright 
glow of the lamp beside him threw the slightly raised 
design into relief, with shallow shadows outlining the 
shapes. And then I grasped that the pattern was 
made of individual crescents like the one on his wrist 
... the one on my hand. 

I looked back at my own small, solitary scar — and 
remembered how I’d received it. I stared at the shape 
of James’s teeth, embossed forever on my skin. 

And then I gasped, staring up at him. “Jasper, what 
happened to you?” 



306 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





“The same thing that happened to your hand,” Jasper 
answered in a quiet voice. “Repeated a thousand 
times.” He laughed a little ruefully and brushed at his 
arm. “Our venom is the only thing that leaves a scar.” 

“Why?” I breathed in horror, feeling rude but unable 
to stop staring at his subtly ravaged skin. 

“I didn’t have quite the same ... upbringing as my 
adopted siblings here. My beginning was something 
else entirely.” His voice turned hard as he finished. 

I gaped at him, appalled. 

“Before I tell you my story,” Jasper said, “you must 
understand that there are places in our world, Bella, 
where the life span of the never-aging is measured in 
weeks, and not centuries.” 

The others had heard this before. Carlisle and 
Emmett turned their attention to the TV again. Alice 
moved silently to sit at Esme’s feet. But Edward was 
just as absorbed as I was; I could feel his eyes on my 
face, reading every flicker of emotion. 

“To really understand why, you have to look at the 
world from a different perspective. You have to 
imagine the way it looks to the powerful, the greedy ... 
the perpetually thirsty. 

“You see, there are places in this world that are more 
desirable to us than others. Places where we can be 
less restrained, and still avoid detection. 



307 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



“Picture, for instance, a map of the western 
hemisphere. Picture on it every human life as a small 
red dot. The thicker the red, the more easily we — 
well, those who exist this way — can feed without 
attracting notice.” 

I shuddered at the image in my head, at the word 
feed. But Jasper wasn’t worried about frightening me, 
not overprotective like Edward always was. He went 
on without a pause. 

“Not that the covens in the South care much for what 
the humans notice or do not. It’s the Volturi that keep 
them in check. They are the only ones the southern 
covens fear. If not for the Volturi, the rest of us would 
be quickly exposed.” 

I frowned at the way he pronounced the name — with 
respect, almost gratitude. The idea of the Volturi as 
the good guys in any sense was hard to accept. 

“The North is, by comparison, very civilized. Mostly 
we are nomads here who enjoy the day as well as the 
night, who allow humans to interact with us 
unsuspectingly — anonymity is important to us all. 

“It’s a different world in the South. The immortals 
there come out only at night. They spend the day 
plotting their next move, or anticipating their 
enemy’s. Because it has been war in the South, 
constant war for centuries, with never one moment of 
truce. The covens there barely note the existence of 
humans, except as soldiers notice a herd of cows by 
the wayside — food for the taking. They only hide 
from the notice of the herd because of the Volturi.” 

“But what are they fighting for?” I asked. 



308 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper smiled. “Remember the map with the red 
dots?” 



He waited, so I nodded. 

“They fight for control of the thickest red. 

“You see, it occurred to someone once that, if he were 
the only vampire in, let’s say Mexico City, well then, 
he could feed every night, twice, three times, and no 
one would ever notice. He plotted ways to get rid of 
the competition. 

“Others had the same idea. Some came up with more 
effective tactics than others. 

“But the most effective tactic was invented by a fairly 
young vampire named Benito. The first anyone ever 
heard of him, he came down from somewhere north of 
Dallas and massacred the two small covens that 
shared the area near Houston. Two nights later, he 
took on the much stronger clan of allies that claimed 
Monterrey in northern Mexico. Again, he won.” 

“How did he win?” I asked with wary curiosity. 

“Benito had created an army of newborn vampires. He 
was the first one to think of it, and, in the beginning, 
he was unstoppable. Very young vampires are 
volatile, wild, and almost impossible to control. One 
newborn can be reasoned with, taught to restrain 
himself, but ten, fifteen together are a nightmare. 
They’ll turn on each other as easily as on the enemy 
you point them at. Benito had to keep making more 
as they fought amongst themselves, and as the 
covens he decimated took more than half his force 
down before they lost. 



309 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You see, though newborns are dangerous, they are 
still possible to defeat if you know what you’re doing. 
They’re incredibly powerful physically, for the first 
year or so, and if they’re allowed to bring strength to 
bear they can crush an older vampire with ease. But 
they are slaves to their instincts, and thus 
predictable. Usually, they have no skill in fighting, 
only muscle and ferocity. And in this case, 
overwhelming numbers.” 

“The vampires in southern Mexico realized what was 
coming for them, and they did the only thing they 
could think of to counteract Benito. They made 
armies of their own... . 

“All hell broke loose — and I mean that more literally 
than you can possibly imagine. We immortals have 
our histories, too, and this particular war will never 
be forgotten. Of course, it was not a good time to be 
human in Mexico, either.” 

I shuddered. 

“When the body count reached epidemic proportions 
— in fact, your histories blame a disease for the 
population slump — the Volturi finally stepped in. 
The entire guard came together and sought out every 
newborn in the bottom half of North America. Benito 
was entrenched in Puebla, building his army as 
quickly as he could in order to take on the prize — 
Mexico City. The Volturi started with him, and then 
moved on to the rest. 

“Anyone who was found with the newborns was 
executed immediately, and, since everyone was trying 
to protect themselves from Benito, Mexico was 
emptied of vampires for a time. 



310 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“The Volturi were cleaning house for almost a year. 
This was another chapter of our history that will 
always be remembered, though there were very few 
witnesses left to speak of what it was like. I spoke to 
someone once who had, from a distance, watched 
what happened when they visited Culiacan.” 

Jasper shuddered. I realized that I had never before 
seen him either afraid or horrified. This was a first. 

“It was enough that the fever for conquest did not 
spread from the South. The rest of the world stayed 
sane. We owe the Volturi for our present way of life. 

“But when the Volturi went back to Italy, the 
survivors were quick to stake their claims in the 
South. 

“It didn’t take long before covens began to dispute 
again. There was a lot of bad blood, if you’ll forgive 
the expression. Vendettas abounded. The idea of 
newborns was already there, and some were not able 
to resist. However, the Volturi had not been forgotten, 
and the southern covens were more careful this time. 
The newborns were selected from the human pool 
with more care, and given more training. They were 
used circumspectly, and the humans remained, for 
the most part, oblivious. Their creators gave the 
Volturi no reason to return. 

“The wars resumed, but on a smaller scale. Every now 
and then, someone would go too far, speculation 
would begin in the human newspapers, and the 
Volturi would return and clean out the city. But they 
let the others, the careful ones, continue... .” 

Jasper was staring off into space. 



311 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s how you were changed.” My realization was a 
whisper. 



“Yes,” he agreed. “When I was human, I lived in 
Houston, Texas. I was almost seventeen years old 
when I joined the Confederate Army in 1861. I lied to 
the recruiters and told them I was twenty. I was tall 
enough to get away with it. 

“My military career was short-lived, but very 
promising. People always ... liked me, listened to what 
I had to say. My father said it was charisma. Of 
course, now I know it was probably something more. 
But, whatever the reason, I was promoted quickly 
through the ranks, over older, more experienced men. 
The Confederate Army was new and scrambling to 
organize itself, so that provided opportunities, as well. 
By the first battle of Galveston — well, it was more of 
a skirmish, really — I was the youngest major in 
Texas, not even acknowledging my real age. 

“I was placed in charge of evacuating the women and 
children from the city when the Union’s mortar boats 
reached the harbor. It took a day to prepare them, 
and then I left with the first column of civilians to 
convey them to Houston. 

“I remember that one night very clearly. 

“We reached the city after dark. I stayed only long 
enough to make sure the entire party was safely 
situated. As soon as that was done, I got myself a 
fresh horse, and I headed back to Galveston. There 
wasn’t time to rest. 

“Just a mile outside the city, I found three women on 
foot. I assumed they were stragglers and dismounted 
at once to offer them my aid. But, when I could see 
their faces in the dim light of the moon, I was 

312 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




stunned into silence. They were, without question, 
the three most beautiful women I had ever seen. 

“They had such pale skin, I remember marveling at it. 
Even the little black-haired girl, whose features were 
clearly Mexican, was porcelain in the moonlight. They 
seemed young, all of them, still young enough to be 
called girls. I knew they were not lost members of our 
party. I would have remembered seeing these three. 

‘“He’s speechless,’ the tallest girl said in a lovely, 
delicate voice — it was like wind chimes. She had fair 
hair, and her skin was snow white. 

“The other was blonder still, her skin just as chalky. 
Her face was like an angel’s. She leaned toward me 
with half-closed eyes and inhaled deeply. 

“‘Mmm,’ she sighed. ‘Lovely.’ 

“The small one, the tiny brunette, put her hand on 
the girl’s arm and spoke quickly. Her voice was too 
soft and musical to be sharp, but that seemed to be 
the way she intended it. 

“‘Concentrate, Nettie,’ she said. 

“I’d always had a good sense of how people related to 
each other, and it was immediately clear that the 
brunette was somehow in charge of the others. If 
they’d been military, I would have said that she 
outranked them. 

‘“He looks right — young, strong, an officer... . ’ The 
brunette paused, and I tried unsuccessfully to speak. 
‘And there’s something more ... do you sense it?’ she 
asked the other two. ‘He’s ... compelling.’ 



313 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“‘Oh, yes,’ Nettie quickly agreed, leaning toward me 
again. 

“Patience,’ the brunette cautioned her. ‘I want to keep 
this one.’ 

“Nettie frowned; she seemed annoyed. 

“You’d better do it, Maria,’ the taller blonde spoke 
again. ‘If he’s important to you. I kill them twice as 
often as I keep them.’ 

“Yes, I’ll do it,’ Maria agreed. ‘I really do like this one. 
Take Nettie away, will you? I don’t want to have to 
protect my back while I’m trying to focus.’ 

“My hair was standing up on the back of my neck, 
though I didn’t understand the meaning of anything 
the beautiful creatures were saying. My instincts told 
me that there was danger, that the angel had meant it 
when she spoke of killing, but my judgment overruled 
my instincts. I had not been taught to fear women, 
but to protect them. 

“‘Let’s hunt,’ Nettie agreed enthusiastically, reaching 
for the tall girl’s hand. They wheeled — they were so 
graceful! — and sprinted toward the city. They 
seemed to almost take flight, they were so fast — their 
white dresses blew out behind them like wings. I 
blinked in amazement, and they were gone. 

“I turned to stare at Maria, who was watching me 
curiously. 

“I’d never been superstitious in my life. Until that 
second, I’d never believed in ghosts or any other such 
nonsense. Suddenly, I was unsure. 

‘“What is your name, soldier?’ Maria asked me. 

314 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“‘Major Jasper Whitlock, ma’am,’ I stammered, unable 
to be impolite to a female, even if she was a ghost. 

“‘I truly hope you survive, Jasper,’ she said in her 
gentle voice. ‘I have a good feeling about you.’ 

“She took a step closer, and inclined her head as if 
she were going to kiss me. I stood frozen in place, 
though my instincts were screaming at me to run.” 

Jasper paused, his face thoughtful. “A few days later,” 
he finally said, and I wasn’t sure if he had edited his 
story for my sake or because he was responding to 
the tension that even I could feel exuding from 
Edward, “I was introduced to my new life. 

“Their names were Maria, Nettie, and Lucy. They 
hadn’t been together long — Maria had rounded up 
the other two — all three were survivors of recently 
lost battles. Theirs was a partnership of convenience. 
Maria wanted revenge, and she wanted her territories 
back. The others were eager to increase their . . . herd 
lands, I suppose you could say. They were putting 
together an army, and going about it more carefully 
than was usual. It was Maria’s idea. She wanted a 
superior army, so she sought out specific humans 
who had potential. Then she gave us much more 
attention, more training than anyone else had 
bothered with. She taught us to fight, and she taught 
us to be invisible to the humans. When we did well, 
we were rewarded... .” 

He paused, editing again. 

“She was in a hurry, though. Maria knew that the 
massive strength of the newborn began to wane 
around the year mark, and she wanted to act while 
we were strong. 



315 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“There were six of us when I joined Maria’s band. She 
added four more within a fortnight. We were all male 
— Maria wanted soldiers — and that made it slightly 
more difficult to keep from fighting amongst 
ourselves. I fought my first battles against my new 
comrades in arms. I was quicker than the others, 
better at combat. Maria was pleased with me, though 
put out that she had to keep replacing the ones I 
destroyed. I was rewarded often, and that made me 
stronger. 

“Maria was a good judge of character. She decided to 
put me in charge of the others — as if I were being 
promoted. It suited my nature exactly. The casualties 
went down dramatically, and our numbers swelled to 
hover around twenty. 

“This was considerable for the cautious times we lived 
in. My ability, as yet undefined, to control the 
emotional atmosphere around me was vitally effective. 
We soon began to work together in a way that 
newborn vampires had never cooperated before. Even 
Maria, Nettie, and Lucy were able to work together 
more easily. 

“Maria grew quite fond of me — she began to depend 
upon me. And, in some ways, I worshipped the 
ground she walked on. I had no idea that any other 
life was possible. Maria told us this was the way 
things were, and we believed. 

“She asked me to tell her when my brothers and I 
were ready to fight, and I was eager to prove myself. I 
pulled together an army of twenty-three in the end — 
twenty-three unbelievably strong new vampires, 
organized and skilled as no others before. Maria was 
ecstatic. 



316 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“We crept down toward Monterrey, her former home, 
and she unleashed us on her enemies. They had only 
nine newborns at the time, and a pair of older 
vampires controlling them. We took them down more 
easily than Maria could believe, losing only four in the 
process. It was an unheard-of margin of victory. 

“And we were well trained. We did it without 
attracting notice. The city changed hands without any 
human being aware. 

“Success made Maria greedy. It wasn’t long before she 
began to eye other cities. That first year, she extended 
her control to cover most of Texas and northern 
Mexico. Then the others came from the South to 
dislodge her.” 

He brushed two fingers along the faint pattern of 
scars on his arm. 

“The fighting was intense. Many began to worry that 
the Volturi would return. Of the original twenty-three, 
I was the only one to survive the first eighteen 
months. We both won and lost. Nettie and Lucy 
turned on Maria eventually — but that one we won. 

“Maria and I were able to hold on to Monterrey. It 
quieted a little, though the wars continued. The idea 
of conquest was dying out; it was mostly vengeance 
and feuding now. So many had lost their partners, 
and that is something our kind does not forgive... . 

“Maria and I always kept a dozen or so newborns 
ready. They meant little to us — they were pawns, 
they were disposable. When they outgrew their 
usefulness, we did dispose of them. My life continued 
in the same violent pattern and the years passed. I 
was sick of it all for a very long time before anything 
changed ... 

317 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Decades later, I developed a friendship with a 
newborn who’d remained useful and survived his first 
three years, against the odds. His name was Peter. I 
liked Peter; he was ... civilized — I suppose that’s the 
right word. He didn’t enjoy the fight, though he was 
good at it. 

“He was assigned to deal with the newborns — 
babysit them, you could say. It was a full-time job. 

“And then it was time to purge again. The newborns 
were outgrowing their strength; they were due to be 
replaced. Peter was supposed to help me dispose of 
them. We took them aside individually, you see, one 
by one ... It was always a very long night. This time, 
he tried to convince me that a few had potential, but 
Maria had instructed that we get rid of them all. I told 
him no. 

“We were about halfway through, and I could feel that 
it was taking a great toll on Peter. I was trying to 
decide whether or not I should send him away and 
finish up myself as I called out the next victim. To my 
surprise, he was suddenly angry, furious. I braced for 
whatever his mood might foreshadow — he was a 
good fighter, but he was never a match for me. 

“The newborn I’d summoned was a female, just past 
her year mark. Her name was Charlotte. His feelings 
changed when she came into view; they gave him 
away. He yelled for her to run, and he bolted after 
her. I could have pursued them, but I didn’t. I felt ... 
averse to destroying him. 

“Maria was irritated with me for that . . . 

“Five years later, Peter snuck back for me. He picked 
a good day to arrive. 



318 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Maria was mystified by my ever-deteriorating frame 
of mind. She’d never felt a moment’s depression, and 
I wondered why I was different. I began to notice a 
change in her emotions when she was near me — 
sometimes there was fear . . . and malice — the same 
feelings that had given me advance warning when 
Nettie and Lucy struck. I was preparing myself to 
destroy my only ally, the core of my existence, when 
Peter returned. 

“Peter told me about his new life with Charlotte, told 
me about options I’d never dreamed I had. In five 
years, they’d never had a fight, though they’d met 
many others in the north. Others who could co-exist 
without the constant mayhem. 

“In one conversation, he had me convinced. I was 
ready to go, and somewhat relieved I wouldn’t have to 
kill Maria. I’d been her companion for as many years 
as Carlisle and Edward have been together, yet the 
bond between us was nowhere near as strong. When 
you live for the fight, for the blood, the relationships 
you form are tenuous and easily broken. I walked 
away without a backward glance. 

“I traveled with Peter and Charlotte for a few years, 
getting the feel of this new, more peaceful world. But 
the depression didn’t fade. I didn’t understand what 
was wrong with me, until Peter noticed that it was 
always worse after I’d hunted. 

“I contemplated that. In so many years of slaughter 
and carnage, I’d lost nearly all of my humanity. I was 
undeniably a nightmare, a monster of the grisliest 
kind. Yet each time I found another human victim, I 
would feel a faint prick of remembrance for that other 
life. Watching their eyes widen in wonder at my 
beauty, I could see Maria and the others in my head, 
what they had looked like to me the last night that I 
319 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




was Jasper Whitlock. It was stronger for me — this 
borrowed memory — than it was for anyone else, 
because I could feel everything my prey was feeling. 
And I lived their emotions as I killed them. 

“You’ve experienced the way I can manipulate the 
emotions around myself, Bella, but I wonder if you 
realize how the feelings in a room affect me. I live 
every day in a climate of emotion. For the first 
century of my life, I lived in a world of bloodthirsty 
vengeance. Hate was my constant companion. It 
eased some when I left Maria, but I still had to feel 
the horror and fear of my prey. 

“It began to be too much. 

“The depression got worse, and I wandered away from 
Peter and Charlotte. Civilized as they were, they didn’t 
feel the same aversion I was beginning to feel. They 
only wanted peace from the fight. I was so wearied by 
killing — killing anyone, even mere humans. 

“Yet I had to keep killing. What choice did I have? I 
tried to kill less often, but I would get too thirsty and I 
would give in. After a century of instant gratification, I 
found self-discipline ... challenging. I still haven’t 
perfected that.” 

Jasper was lost in the story, as was I. It surprised me 
when his desolate expression smoothed into a 
peaceful smile. 

“I was in Philadelphia. There was a storm, and I was 
out during the day — something I was not completely 
comfortable with yet. I knew standing in the rain 
would attract attention, so I ducked into a little half- 
empty diner. My eyes were dark enough that no one 
would notice them, though this meant I was thirsty, 
and that worried me a little. 

320 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“She was there — expecting me, naturally.” He 
chuckled once. “She hopped down from the high stool 
at the counter as soon as I walked in and came 
directly toward me. 

“It shocked me. I was not sure if she meant to attack. 
That’s the only interpretation of her behavior my past 
had to offer. But she was smiling. And the emotions 
that were emanating from her were like nothing I’d 
ever felt before. 

“You’ve kept me waiting a long time,’ she said.” 

I didn’t realize Alice had come to stand behind me 
again. 

“And you ducked your head, like a good Southern 
gentleman, and said, ‘I’m sorry, ma’am.’” Alice 
laughed at the memory. 

Jasper smiled down at her. “You held out your hand, 
and I took it without stopping to make sense of what I 
was doing. For the first time in almost a century, I felt 
hope.” 

Jasper took Alice’s hand as he spoke. 

Alice grinned. “I was just relieved. I thought you were 
never going to show up.” 

They smiled at each other for a long moment, and 
then Jasper looked back to me, the soft expression 
lingering. 

“Alice told me what she’d seen of Carlisle and his 
family. I could hardly believe that such an existence 
was possible. But Alice made me optimistic. So we 
went to find them.” 



321 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Scared the hell out of them, too,” Edward said, 
rolling his eyes at Jasper before turning to me to 
explain. “Emmett and I were away hunting. Jasper 
shows up, covered in battle scars, towing this little 
freak” — he nudged Alice playfully — “who greets 
them all by name, knows everything about them, and 
wants to know which room she can move into.” 

Alice and Jasper laughed in harmony, soprano and 
bass. 

“When I got home, all my things were in the garage,” 
Edward continued. 

Alice shrugged. “Your room had the best view.” 

They all laughed together now. 

“That’s a nice story,” I said. 

Three pairs of eyes questioned my sanity. 

“I mean the last part,” I defended myself. “The happy 
ending with Alice.” 

“Alice has made all the difference,” Jasper agreed. 
“This is a climate I enjoy.” 

But the momentary pause in the stress couldn’t last. 

“An army,” Alice whispered. “Why didn’t you tell me?” 

The others were intent again, their eyes locked on 
Jasper’s face. 

“I thought I must be interpreting the signs incorrectly. 
Because where is the motive? Why would someone 
create an army in Seattle? There is no history there, 
no vendetta. It makes no sense from a conquest 

322 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




standpoint, either; no one claims it. Nomads pass 
through, but there’s no one to fight for it. No one to 
defend it from. 

“But I’ve seen this before, and there’s no other 
explanation. There is an army of newborn vampires in 
Seattle. Fewer than twenty, I’d guess. The difficult 
part is that they are totally untrained. Whoever made 
them just set them loose. It will only get worse, and it 
won’t be much longer till the Volturi step in. Actually, 
I’m surprised they’ve let this go on so long.” 

“What can we do?” Carlisle asked. 

“If we want to avoid the Volturi’s involvement, we will 
have to destroy the newborns, and we will have to do 
it very soon.” Jasper’s face was hard. Knowing his 
story now, I could guess how this evaluation must 
disturb him. “I can teach you how. It won’t be easy in 
the city. The young ones aren’t concerned about 
secrecy, but we will have to be. It will limit us in ways 
that they are not. Maybe we can lure them out.” 

“Maybe we won’t have to.” Edward’s voice was bleak. 
“Does it occur to anyone else that the only possible 
threat in the area that would call for the creation of 
an army is ... us?” 

Jasper’s eyes narrowed; Carlisle’s widened, shocked. 

“Tanya’s family is also near,” Esme said slowly, 
unwilling to accept Edward’s words. 

“The newborns aren’t ravaging Anchorage, Esme. I 
think we have to consider the idea that we are the 
targets.” 



323 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“They’re not coming after us,” Alice insisted, and then 
paused. “Or ... they don’t know that they are. Not 
yet.” 

“What is that?” Edward asked, curious and tense. 
“What are you remembering?” 

“Flickers,” Alice said. “I can’t see a clear picture when 
I try to see what’s going on, nothing concrete. But I’ve 
been getting these strange flashes. Not enough to 
make sense of. It’s as if someone’s changing their 
mind, moving from one course of action to another so 
quickly that I can’t get a good view... .” 

“Indecision?” Jasper asked in disbelief. 

“I don’t know... .” 

“Not indecision,” Edward growled. “Knowledge. 
Someone who knows you can’t see anything until the 
decision is made. Someone who is hiding from us. 
Playing with the holes in your vision.” 

“Who would know that?” Alice whispered. 

Edward’s eyes were hard as ice. “Aro knows you as 
well as you know yourself.” 

“But I would see if they’d decided to come... .” 

“Unless they didn’t want to get their hands dirty.” 

“A favor,” Rosalie suggested, speaking for the first 
time. “Someone in the South ... someone who already 
had trouble with the rules. Someone who should have 
been destroyed is offered a second chance — if they 
take care of this one small problem... . That would 
explain the Volturi’s sluggish response.” 



324 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Why?” Carlisle asked, still shocked. “There’s no 
reason for the Volturi — ” 

“It was there,” Edward disagreed quietly. “I’m 
surprised it’s come to this so soon, because the other 
thoughts were stronger. In Aro’s head he saw me at 
his one side and Alice at his other. The present and 
the future, virtual omniscience. The power of the idea 
intoxicated him. I would have thought it would take 
him much longer to give up on that plan — he wanted 
it too much. But there was also the thought of you, 
Carlisle, of our family, growing stronger and larger. 
The jealousy and the fear: you having ... not more 
than he had, but still, things that he wanted. He tried 
not to think about it, but he couldn’t hide it 
completely. The idea of rooting out the competition 
was there; besides their own, ours is the largest coven 
they’ve ever found... .” 

I stared at his face in horror. He’d never told me this, 
but I guessed I knew why. I could see it in my head 
now, Aro’s dream. Edward and Alice in black, flowing 
robes, drifting along at Aro’s side with their eyes cold 
and blood-red... . 

Carlisle interrupted my waking nightmare. “They’re 
too committed to their mission. They would never 
break the rules themselves. It goes against everything 
they’ve worked for.” 

“They’ll clean up afterward. A double betrayal,” 
Edward said in a grim voice. “No harm done.” 

Jasper leaned forward, shaking his head. “No, Carlisle 
is right. The Volturi do not break rules. Besides, it’s 
much too sloppy. This ... person, this threat — they 
have no idea what they’re doing. A first-timer, I’d 
swear to it. I cannot believe the Volturi are involved. 
But they will be.” 

325 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




They all stared at each other, frozen with stress. 

“Then let’s go,” Emmett almost roared. “What are we 
waiting for?” 

Carlisle and Edward exchanged a long glance. 

Edward nodded once. 

“Well need you to teach us, Jasper,” Carlisle finally 
said. “How to destroy them.” Carlisle’s jaw was hard, 
but I could see the pain in his eyes as he said the 
words. No one hated violence more than Carlisle. 

There was something bothering me, and I couldn’t put 
my finger on it. I was numb, horrified, deathly afraid. 
And yet, under that, I could feel that I was missing 
something important. Something that would make 
some sense out of the chaos. That would explain it. 

“We’re going to need help,” Jasper said. “Do you think 
Tanya’s family would be willing ... ? Another five 
mature vampires would make an enormous 
difference. And then Kate and Eleazar would be 
especially advantageous on our side. It would be 
almost easy, with their aid.” 

“Well ask,” Carlisle answered. 

Jasper held out a cell phone. “We need to hurry.” 

I’d never seen Carlisle’s innate calm so shaken. He 
took the phone, and paced toward the windows. He 
dialed a number, held the phone to his ear, and laid 
the other hand against the glass. He stared out into 
the foggy morning with a pained and ambivalent 
expression. 



326 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward took my hand and pulled me to the white 
loveseat. I sat beside him, staring at his face while he 
stared at Carlisle. 



Carlisle’s voice was low and quick, difficult to hear. I 
heard him greet Tanya, and then he raced through 
the situation too fast for me to understand much, 
though I could tell that the Alaskan vampires were 
not ignorant of what was going on in Seattle. 

Then something changed in Carlisle’s voice. 

“Oh,” he said, his voice sharper in surprise. “We 
didn’t realize ... that Irina felt that way.” 

Edward groaned at my side and closed his eyes. 
“Damn it. Damn Laurent to the deepest pit of hell 
where he belongs.” 

“Laurent?” I whispered, the blood emptying from my 
face, but Edward didn’t respond, focused on Carlisle’s 
thoughts. 

My short encounter with Laurent early this spring 
was not something that had faded or dimmed in my 
mind. I still remembered every word he’d said before 
Jacob and his pack had interrupted. 

I actually came here as a favor to her. . . . 

Victoria. Laurent had been her first maneuver — 
she’d sent him to observe, to see how hard it might be 
to get to me. He hadn’t survived the wolves to report 
back. 

Though he’d kept up his old ties with Victoria after 
James’s death, he’d also formed new ties and new 
relationships. He’d gone to live with Tanya’s family in 
Alaska — Tanya the strawberry blonde — the closest 

327 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




friends the Cullens had in the vampire world, 
practically extended family. Laurent had been with 
them for almost a year previous to his death. 

Carlisle was still talking, his voice not quite pleading. 
Persuasive, but with an edge. Then the edge abruptly 
won out over the persuasion. 

“There’s no question of that,” Carlisle said in a stern 
voice. “We have a truce. They haven’t broken it, and 
neither will we. I’m sorry to hear that... . Of course. 
Well just have to do our best alone.” 

Carlisle shut the phone without waiting for an 
answer. He continued to stare out into the fog. 

“What’s the problem?” Emmett murmured to Edward. 

“Irina was more involved with our friend Laurent than 
we knew. She’s holding a grudge against the wolves 
for destroying him to save Bella. She wants — ” He 
paused, looking down at me. 

“Go on,” I said as evenly as I could. 

His eyes tightened. “She wants revenge. To take down 
the pack. They would trade their help for our 
permission.” 

“No!” I gasped. 

“Don’t worry,” he told me in a flat voice. “Carlisle 
would never agree to it.” He hesitated, then sighed. 
“Nor would I. Laurent had it coming” — this was 
almost a growl — “and I still owe the wolves for that.” 

“This isn’t good,” Jasper said. “It’s too even a fight. 
We’d have the upper hand in skill, but not numbers. 



328 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




We’d win, but at what price?” His tense eyes flashed 
to Alice’s face and away. 

I wanted to scream out loud as I grasped what Jasper 
meant. 

We would win, but we would lose. Some wouldn’t 
survive. 

I looked around the room at their faces — Jasper, 
Alice, Emmett, Rose, Esme, Carlisle ... Edward — the 
faces of my family. 



329 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




DECLARATION 




“You can't be serious,” I said Wednesday afternoon. 
“You’ve completely lost your mind!” 

“Say whatever you like about me,” Alice answered. 
“The party is still on.” 

I stared at her, my eyes so wide with disbelief it felt 
like they might fall out and land on my lunch tray. 

“Oh, calm down, Bella! There’s no reason not to go 
through with it. Besides, the invitations are already 
sent.” 

“But ... the ... you ... I ... insane!” I spluttered. 

“You’ve already bought my present,” she reminded 
me. “You don’t have to do anything but show up.” 

I made an effort to calm myself. “With everything that 
is going on right now, a party is hardly appropriate.” 

“Graduation is what’s going on right now, and a party 
is so appropriate it’s almost passe.” 

“Alice!” 

She sighed, and tried to be serious. “There are a few 
things we need to get in order now, and that’s going 
to take a little time. As long as we’re sitting here 
waiting, we might as well commemorate the good 
stuff. You’re only going to graduate from high school 
— for the first time — once. You don’t get to be 
human again, Bella. This is a once-in-a-lifetime shot.” 



330 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



Edward, silent through our little argument, flashed 
her a warning look. She stuck out her tongue at him. 
She was right — her soft voice would never carry over 
the babble of the cafeteria. And no one would 
understand the meaning behind her words in any 
case. 

“What few things do we need to get in order?” I asked, 
refusing to be sidetracked. 

Edward answered in a low voice. “Jasper thinks we 
could use some help. Tanya’s family isn’t the only 
choice we have. Carlisle’s trying to track down a few 
old friends, and Jasper is looking up Peter and 
Charlotte. He’s considering talking to Maria ... but no 
one really wants to involve the southerners.” 

Alice shuddered delicately. 

“It shouldn’t be too hard to convince them to help,” he 
continued. “Nobody wants a visit from Italy.” 

“But these friends — they’re not going to be . . . 
vegetarians, right?” I protested, using the Cullens’ 
tongue-in-cheek nickname for themselves. 

“No,” Edward answered, suddenly expressionless. 

“Here? In Forks?” 

“They’re friends,” Alice reassured me. “Everything’s 
going to be fine. Don’t worry. And then, Jasper has to 
teach us a few courses on newborn elimination... .” 

Edward’s eyes brightened at that, and a brief smile 
flashed across his face. My stomach suddenly felt like 
it was full of sharp little splinters of ice. 



331 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“When are you going?” I asked in a hollow voice. I 
couldn’t stand this — the idea that someone might 
not come back. What if it was Emmett, so brave and 
thoughtless that he was never the least bit cautious? 
Or Esme, so sweet and motherly that I couldn’t even 
imagine her in a fight? Or Alice, so tiny, so fragile- 
looking? Or ... but I couldn’t even think the name, 
consider the possibility. 

“A week,” Edward said casually. “That ought to give 
us enough time.” 

The icy splinters twisted uncomfortably in my 
stomach. I was suddenly nauseated. 

“You look kind of green, Bella,” Alice commented. 

Edward put his arm around me and pulled me tightly 
against his side. “It’s going to be fine, Bella. Trust 
me.” 

Sure, I thought to myself. Trust him. He wasn’t the 
one who was going to have to sit behind and wonder 
whether or not the core of his existence was going to 
come home. 

And then it occurred to me. Maybe I didn’t need to sit 
behind. A week was more than enough time. 

“You’re looking for help,” I said slowly. 

“Yes.” Alice’s head cocked to the side as she 
processed the change in my tone. 

I looked only at her as I answered. My voice was just 
slightly louder than a whisper. “I could help.” 

Edward’s body was suddenly rigid, his arm too tight 
around me. He exhaled, and the sound was a hiss. 

332 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




But it was Alice, still calm, who answered. “That 
really wouldn’t be helpful.” 

“Why not?” I argued; I could hear the desperation in 
my voice. “Eight is better than seven. There’s more 
than enough time.” 

“There’s not enough time to make you helpful, Bella,” 
she disagreed coolly. “Do you remember how Jasper 
described the young ones? You’d be no good in a 
fight. You wouldn’t be able to control your instincts, 
and that would make you an easy target. And then 
Edward would get hurt trying to protect you.” She 
folded her arms across her chest, pleased with her 
unassailable logic. 

And I knew she was right, when she put it like that. I 
slumped in my seat, my sudden hope defeated. 
Beside me, Edward relaxed. 

He whispered the reminder in my ear. “Not because 
you’re afraid.” 

“Oh,” Alice said, and a blank look crossed her face. 
Then her expression became surly. “I hate last- 
minute cancellations. So that puts the party 
attendance list down to sixty-five... .” 

“Sixty-five!” My eyes bulged again. I didn’t have that 
many friends. Did I even know that many people? 

“Who canceled?” Edward wondered, ignoring me. 

“Renee.” 

“What?” I gasped. 



333 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“She was going to surprise you for your graduation, 
but something went wrong. You’ll have a message 
when you get home.” 

For a moment, I just let myself enjoy the relief. 
Whatever it was that went wrong for my mother, I was 
eternally grateful to it. If she had come to Forks now 
...I didn’t want to think about it. My head would 
explode. 

The message light was flashing when I got home. My 
feeling of relief flared again as I listened to my mother 
describe Phil’s accident on the ball field — while 
demonstrating a slide, he’d tangled up with the 
catcher and broken his thigh bone; he was entirely 
dependent on her, and there was no way she could 
leave him. My mom was still apologizing when the 
message cut off. 

“Well, that’s one,” I sighed. 

“One what?” Edward asked. 

“One person I don’t have to worry about getting killed 
this week.” 

He rolled his eyes. 

“Why won’t you and Alice take this seriously?” I 
demanded. “This is serious.” 

He smiled. “Confidence.” 

“Wonderful,” I grumbled. I picked up the phone and 
dialed Renee’s number. I knew it would be a long 
conversation, but I also knew that I wouldn’t have to 
contribute much. 



334 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I just listened, and reassured her every time I could 
get a word in: I wasn’t disappointed, I wasn’t mad, I 
wasn’t hurt. She should concentrate on helping Phil 
get better. I passed on my “get well soon” to Phil, and 
promised to call her with every single detail from 
Forks High’s generic graduation. Finally, I had to use 
my desperate need to study for finals to get off the 
phone. 

Edward’s patience was endless. He waited politely 
through the whole conversation, just playing with my 
hair and smiling whenever I looked up. It was 
probably superficial to notice such things while I had 
so many more important things to think about, but 
his smile still knocked the breath out of me. He was 
so beautiful that it made it hard sometimes to think 
about anything else, hard to concentrate on Phil’s 
troubles or Renee’s apologies or hostile vampire 
armies. I was only human. 

As soon as I hung up, I stretched onto my tiptoes to 
kiss him. He put his hands around my waist and 
lifted me onto the kitchen counter, so I wouldn’t have 
to reach as far. That worked for me. I locked my arms 
around his neck and melted against his cold chest. 

Too soon, as usual, he pulled away. 

I felt my face slip into a pout. He laughed at my 
expression as he extricated himself from my arms and 
legs. He leaned against the counter next to me and 
put one arm lightly around my shoulders. 

“I know you think that I have some kind of perfect, 
unyielding self-control, but that’s not actually the 
case.” 

“I wish,” I sighed. 



335 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




And he sighed, too. 

“After school tomorrow,” he said, changing the 
subject, “I’m going hunting with Carlisle, Esme, and 
Rosalie. Just for a few hours — we’ll stay close. Alice, 
Jasper, and Emmett should be able to keep you safe.” 

“Ugh,” I grumbled. Tomorrow was the first day of 
finals, and it was only a half-day. I had Calculus and 
History — the only two challenges in my line-up — so 
I’d have almost the whole day without him, and 
nothing to do but worry. “I hate being babysat.” 

“It’s temporary,” he promised. 

“Jasper will be bored. Emmett will make fun of me.” 
“They’ll be on their best behavior.” 

“Right,” I grumbled. 

And then it occurred to me that I did have one option 
besides babysitters. “You know ... I haven’t been to La 
Push since the bonfire.” 

I watched his face carefully for any change in 
expression. His eyes tightened the tiniest bit. 

“I’d be safe enough there,” I reminded him. 

He thought about it for a few seconds. “You’re 
probably right.” 

His face was calm, but just a little too smooth. I 
almost asked if he’d rather I stayed here, but then I 
thought of the ribbing Emmett would no doubt dish 
out, and I changed the subject. “Are you thirsty 
already?” I asked, reaching up to stroke the light 



336 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




shadow beneath his eye. His irises were still a deep 
gold. 

“Not really.” He seemed reluctant to answer, and that 
surprised me. I waited for an explanation. 

“We want to be as strong as possible,” he explained, 
still reluctant. “Well probably hunt again on the way, 
looking for big game.” 

“That makes you stronger?” 

He searched my face for something, but there was 
nothing to find but curiosity. 

“Yes,” he finally said. “Human blood makes us the 
strongest, though only fractionally. Jasper’s been 
thinking about cheating — adverse as he is to the 
idea, he’s nothing if not practical — but he won’t 
suggest it. He knows what Carlisle will say.” 

“Would that help?” I asked quietly. 

“It doesn’t matter. We aren’t going to change who we 
are.” 

I frowned. If something helped even the odds ... and 
then I shuddered, realizing I was willing to have a 
stranger die to protect him. I was horrified at myself, 
but not entirely able to deny it, either. 

He changed the subject again. “That’s why they’re so 
strong, of course. The newborns are full of human 
blood — their own blood, reacting to the change. It 
lingers in the tissues and strengthens them. Their 
bodies use it up slowly, like Jasper said, the strength 
starting to wane after about a year.” 

“How strong will I be?” 

337 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He grinned. “Stronger than I am.” 

“Stronger than Emmett?” 

The grin got bigger. “Yes. Do me a favor and challenge 
him to an arm-wrestling match. It would be a good 
experience for him.” 

I laughed. It sounded so ridiculous. 

Then I sighed and hopped down from the counter, 
because I really couldn’t put it off any longer. I had to 
cram, and cram hard. Luckily I had Edward’s help, 
and Edward was an excellent tutor — since he knew 
absolutely everything. I figured my biggest problem 
would be just focusing on the tests. If I didn’t watch 
myself, I might end up writing my History essay on 
the vampire wars of the South. 

I took a break to call Jacob, and Edward seemed just 
as comfortable as he had when I was on the phone 
with Renee. He played with my hair again. 

Though it was the middle of the afternoon, my call 
woke Jacob up, and he was grouchy at first. He 
cheered right up when I asked if I could visit the next 
day. The Quileute school was already out for the 
summer, so he told me to come over as early as I 
could. I was pleased to have an option besides being 
babysat. There was a tiny bit more dignity in 
spending the day with Jacob. 

Some of that dignity was lost when Edward insisted 
again on delivering me to the border line like a child 
being exchanged by custodial guardians. 

“So how do you feel you did on your exams?” Edward 
asked on the way, making small talk. 



338 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“History was easy, but I don’t know about the 
Calculus. It seemed like it was making sense, so that 
probably means I failed.” 

He laughed. “I’m sure you did fine. Or, if you’re really 
worried, I could bribe Mr. Varner to give you an A.” 

“Er, thanks, but no thanks.” 

He laughed again, but suddenly stopped when we 
turned the last bend and saw the red car waiting. He 
frowned in concentration, and then, as he parked the 
car, he sighed. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked, my hand on the door. 

He shook his head. “Nothing.” His eyes were narrowed 
as he stared through the windshield toward the other 
car. I’d seen that look before. 

“You’re not listening to Jacob, are you?” I accused. 

“It’s not easy to ignore someone when he’s shouting.” 

“Oh.” I thought about that for a second. “What’s he 
shouting?” I whispered. 

“I’m absolutely certain he’ll mention it himself,” 
Edward said in a wry tone. 

I would have pressed the issue, but then Jacob 
honked his horn — two quick impatient honks. 

“That’s impolite,” Edward growled. 

“That’s Jacob,” I sighed, and I hurried out before 
Jacob did something to really set Edward’s teeth on 
edge. 



339 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I waved to Edward before I got into the Rabbit and, 
from that distance, it looked like he was truly upset 
about the honking thing ... or whatever Jacob was 
thinking about. But my eyes were weak and made 
mistakes all the time. 

I wanted Edward to come to me. I wanted to make 
both of them get out of their cars and shake hands 
and be friends — be Edward and Jacob rather than 
vampire and werewolf. It was as if I had those two 
stubborn magnets in my hands again, and I was 
holding them together, trying to force nature to 
reverse herself... . 

I sighed, and climbed in Jacob’s car. 

“Hey, Bells.” Jake’s tone was cheerful, but his voice 
dragged. I examined his face as he started down the 
road, driving a little faster than I did, but slower than 
Edward, on his way back to La Push. 

Jacob looked different, maybe even sick. His eyelids 
drooped and his face was drawn. His shaggy hair 
stuck out in random directions; it was almost to his 
chin in some places. 

“Are you all right, Jake?” 

“Just tired,” he managed to get out before he was 
overcome by a massive yawn. When he finished, he 
asked, “What do you want to do today?” 

I eyed him for a moment. “Let’s just hang out at your 
place for now,” I suggested. He didn’t look like he was 
up for much more than that. “We can ride our bikes 
later.” 

“Sure, sure,” he said, yawning again. 



340 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob’s house was vacant, and that felt strange. I 
realized I thought of Billy as a nearly permanent 
fixture there. 

“Where’s your dad?” 

“Over at the Clearwaters’. He’s been hanging out there 
a lot since Harry died. Sue gets lonely.” 

Jacob sat down on the old couch that was no bigger 
than a loveseat and squished himself to the side to 
make room for me. 

“Oh. That’s nice. Poor Sue.” 

“Yeah ... she’s having some trouble... .” He hesitated. 
“With her kids.” 

“Sure, it’s got to be hard on Seth and Leah, losing 
their dad... .” 

“Uh-huh,” he agreed, lost in thought. He picked up 
the remote and flipped on the TV without seeming to 
think about it. He yawned. 

“What’s with you, Jake? You’re like a zombie.” 

“I got about two hours of sleep last night, and four the 
night before,” he told me. He stretched his long arms 
slowly, and I could hear the joints crack as he flexed. 
He settled his left arm along the back of the sofa 
behind me, and slumped back to rest his head 
against the wall. “I’m exhausted.” 

“Why aren’t you sleeping?” I asked. 

He made a face. “Sam’s being difficult. He doesn’t 
trust your bloodsuckers. I’ve been running double 



341 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




shifts for two weeks and nobody’s touched me yet, 
but he still doesn’t buy it. So I’m on my own for now.” 

“Double shifts? Is this because you’re trying to watch 
out for me? Jake, that’s wrong! You need to sleep. I’ll 
be fine.” 

“It’s no big deal.” His eyes were abruptly more alert. 
“Hey, did you ever find out who was in your room? Is 
there anything new?” 

I ignored the second question. “No, we didn’t find 
anything out about my, um, visitor.” 

“Then 111 be around,” he said as his eyes slid closed. 

“Jake ... ,” I started to whine. 

“Hey, it’s the least I can do — I offered eternal 
servitude, remember. I’m your slave for life.” 

“I don’t want a slave!” 

His eyes didn’t open. “What do you want, Bella?” 

“I want my friend Jacob — and I don’t want him half- 
dead, hurting himself in some misguided attempt — ” 

He cut me off. “Look at it this way — I’m hoping I can 
track down a vampire I’m allowed to kill, okay?” 

I didn’t answer. He looked at me then, peeking at my 
reaction. 

“Kidding, Bella.” 

I stared at the TV. 



342 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“So, any special plans next week? You’re graduating. 
Wow. That’s big.” His voice turned flat, and his face, 
already drawn, looked downright haggard as his eyes 
closed again — not in exhaustion this time, but in 
denial. I realized that graduation still had a horrible 
significance for him, though my intentions were now 
disrupted. 

“No special plans,” I said carefully, hoping he would 
hear the reassurance in my words without a more 
detailed explanation. I didn’t want to get into it now. 
For one thing, he didn’t look up for any difficult 
conversations. For another, I knew he would read too 
much into my qualms. “Well, I do have to go to a 
graduation party. Mine.” I made a disgusted sound. 
“Alice loves parties, and she’s invited the whole town 
to her place the night of. It’s going to be horrible.” 

His eyes opened as I spoke, and a relieved smile made 
his face look less worn. “I didn’t get an invitation. I’m 
hurt,” he teased. 

“Consider yourself invited. It’s supposedly my party, 
so I should be able to ask who I want.” 

“Thanks,” he said sarcastically, his eyes slipping 
closed once more. 

“I wish you would come,” I said without any hope. “It 
would be more fun. For me, I mean.” 

“Sure, sure,” he mumbled. “That would be very ... 
wise ...” His voice trailed off. 

A few seconds later, he was snoring. 

Poor Jacob. I studied his dreaming face, and liked 
what I saw. While he slept, every trace of 
defensiveness and bitterness disappeared and 

343 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




suddenly he was the boy who had been my very best 
friend before all the werewolf nonsense had gotten in 
the way. He looked so much younger. He looked like 
my Jacob. 

I nestled into the couch to wait out his nap, hoping he 
would sleep for a while and make up some of what 
he’d lost. I flipped through channels, but there wasn’t 
much on. I settled for a cooking show, knowing, as I 
watched, that I’d never put that much effort into 
Charlie’s dinner. Jacob continued to snore, getting 
louder. I turned up the TV. 

I was strangely relaxed, almost sleepy, too. This 
house felt safer than my own, probably because no 
one had ever come looking for me here. I curled up on 
the sofa and thought about taking a nap myself. 
Maybe I would have, but Jacob’s snoring was 
impossible to tune out. So, instead of sleeping, I let 
my mind wander. 

Finals were done, and most of them had been a 
cakewalk. Calculus, the one exception, was behind 
me, pass or fail. My high school education was over. 
And I didn’t really know how I felt about that. I 
couldn’t look at it objectively, tied up as it was with 
my human life being over. 

I wondered how long Edward planned to use this “not 
because you’re scared” excuse. I was going to have to 
put my foot down sometime. 

If I were thinking practically, I knew it made more 
sense to ask Carlisle to change me the second I made 
it through the graduation line. Forks was becoming 
nearly as dangerous as a war zone. No, Forks was a 
war zone. Not to mention ... it would be a good excuse 
to miss the graduation party. I smiled to myself as I 



344 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




thought of that most trivial of reasons for changing. 
Silly ... yet still compelling. 

But Edward was right — I wasn’t quite ready yet. 

And I didn’t want to be practical. I wanted Edward to 
be the one. It wasn’t a rational desire. I was sure that 
— about two seconds after someone actually bit me 
and the venom started burning through my veins — I 
really wouldn’t care anymore who had done it. So it 
shouldn’t make a difference. 

It was hard to define, even to myself, why it mattered. 
There was just something about him being the one to 
make the choice — to want to keep me enough that 
he wouldn’t just allow me to be changed, he would act 
to keep me. It was childish, but I liked the idea that 
his lips would be the last good thing I would feel. 

Even more embarrassingly, something I would never 
say aloud, I wanted his venom to poison my system. It 
would make me belong to him in a tangible, 
quantifiable way. 

But I knew he was going to stick to his marriage 
scheme like glue — because a delay was what he was 
clearly after and it was working so far. I tried to 
imagine telling my parents that I was getting married 
this summer. Telling Angela and Ben and Mike. I 
couldn’t. I couldn’t think of the words to say. It would 
be easier to tell them I was becoming a vampire. And I 
was sure that at least my mother — were I to tell her 
every detail of the truth — would be more strenuously 
opposed to me getting married than to me a becoming 
vampire. I grimaced to myself as I imagined her 
horrified expression. 

Then, for just a second, I saw that same odd vision of 
Edward and me on a porch swing, wearing clothes 
from another kind of world. A world where it would 

345 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




surprise no one if I wore his ring on my finger. A 
simpler place, where love was defined in simpler 
ways. One plus one equals two... . 

Jacob snorted and rolled to his side. His arm swung 
off the back of the couch and pinned me against his 
body. 

Holy crow, but he was heavy! And hot. It was 
sweltering after just a few seconds. 

I tried to slide out from under his arm without waking 
him, but I had to shove a little bit, and when his arm 
fell off me, his eyes snapped open. He jumped to his 
feet, looking around anxiously. 

“What? What?” he asked, disoriented. 

“It’s just me, Jake. Sorry I woke you.” 

He turned to look at me, blinking and confused. 
“Bella?” 

“Hey, sleepy.” 

“Oh, man! Did I fall asleep? I’m sorry! How long was I 
out?” 

“A few Emerils. I lost count.” 

He flopped back on the couch next to me. “Wow. 

Sorry about that, really.” 

I patted his hair, trying to smooth the wild disarray. 
“Don’t feel bad. I’m glad you got some sleep.” 

He yawned and stretched. “I’m useless these days. No 
wonder Billy’s always gone. I’m so boring.” 



346 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’re fine,” I assured him. 



“Ugh, let’s go outside. I need to walk around or I’ll 
pass out again.” 

“Jake, go back to sleep. I’m good. I’ll call Edward to 
come pick me up.” I patted my pockets as I spoke, 
and realized they were empty. “Shoot, I’ll have to 
borrow your phone. I think I must have left his in the 
car.” I started to unfold myself. 

“No!” Jacob insisted, grabbing my hand. “No, stay. 
You hardly ever make it down. I can’t believe I wasted 
all this time.” 

He pulled me off the couch as he spoke, and then led 
the way outside, ducking his head as he passed 
under the doorframe. It had gotten much cooler while 
Jacob slept; the air was unseasonably cold — there 
must be a storm on the way. It felt like February, not 
May. 

The wintry air seemed to make Jacob more alert. He 
paced back and forth in front of the house for a 
minute, dragging me along with him. 

“I’m an idiot,” he muttered to himself. 

“What’s the matter, Jake? So you fell asleep.” I 
shrugged. 

“I wanted to talk to you. I can’t believe this.” 

“Talk to me now,” I said. 

Jacob met my eyes for a second, and then looked 
away quickly toward the trees. It almost looked like 
he was blushing, but it was hard to tell with his dark 
skin. 

347 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I suddenly remembered what Edward had said when 
he dropped me off — that Jacob would tell me 
whatever he was shouting in his head. I started 
gnawing on my lip. 

“Look,” Jacob said. “I was planning to do this a little 
bit differently.” He laughed, and it sounded like he 
was laughing at himself. “Smoother,” he added. “I was 
going to work up to it, but” — and he looked at the 
clouds, dimmer as the afternoon progressed — “I’m 
out of time to work.” 

He laughed again, nervous. We were still pacing 
slowly. 

“What are you talking about?” I demanded. 

He took a deep breath. “I want to tell you something. 
And you already know it . . . but I think I should say it 
out loud anyway. Just so there’s never any confusion 
on the subject.” 

I planted my feet, and he came to a stop. I took my 
hand away and folded my arms across my chest. I 
was suddenly sure that I didn’t want to know what he 
was building up to. 

Jacob’s eyebrows pulled down, throwing his deep-set 
eyes into shadow. They were pitch black as they 
bored into mine. 

“I’m in love with you, Bella,” Jacob said in a strong, 
sure voice. “Bella, I love you. And I want you to pick 
me instead of him. I know you don’t feel that way, but 
I need the truth out there so that you know your 
options. I wouldn’t want a miscommunication to 
stand in our way.” 



348 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





I stared at him for a long minute, speechless. I could 
not think of one thing to say to him. 

As he watched my dumbfounded expression, the 
seriousness left his face. 

“Okay,” he said, grinning. “That’s all.” 

“Jake — ” It felt like there was something big sticking 
in my throat. I tried to clear the obstruction. “I can’t 
— I mean I don’t ... I have to go.” 

I turned, but he grabbed my shoulders and spun me 
around. 

“No, wait. I know that, Bella. But, look, answer me 
this, all right? Do you want me to go away and never 
see you again? Be honest.” 

It was hard to concentrate on his question, so it took 
a minute to answer. “No, I don’t want that,” I finally 
admitted. 

Jacob grinned again. “See.” 

“But I don’t want you around for the same reason 
that you want me around,” I objected. 

“Tell me exactly why you want me around, then.” 

I thought carefully. “I miss you when you’re not there. 
When you’re happy,” I qualified carefully, “it makes 
me happy. But I could say the same thing about 



349 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



Charlie, Jacob. You’re family. I love you, but I’m not 
in love with you.” 

He nodded, unruffled. “But you do want me around.” 
“Yes.” I sighed. He was impossible to discourage. 

“Then 111 stick around.” 

“You’re a glutton for punishment,” I grumbled. 

“Yep.” He stroked the tips of his fingers across my 
right cheek. I slapped his hand away. 

“Do you think you could behave yourself a little 
better, at least?” I asked, irritated. 

“No, I don’t. You decide, Bella. You can have me the 
way I am — bad behavior included — or not at all.” 

I stared at him, frustrated. “That’s mean.” 

“So are you.” 

That pulled me up short, and I took an involuntary 
step back. He was right. If I wasn’t mean — and 
greedy, too — I would tell him I didn’t want to be 
friends and walk away. It was wrong to try to keep my 
friend when that would hurt him. I didn’t know what I 
was doing here, but I was suddenly sure that it wasn’t 
good. 

“You’re right,” I whispered. 

He laughed. “I forgive you. Just try not to get too mad 
at me. Because I recently decided that I’m not giving 
up. There really is something irresistible about a lost 
cause.” 



350 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jacob.” I stared into his dark eyes, trying to make 
him take me seriously. “I love him, Jacob. He’s my 
whole life.” 

“You love me, too,” he reminded me. He held up his 
hand when I started to protest. “Not the same way, I 
know. But he’s not your whole life, either. Not 
anymore. Maybe he was once, but he left. And now 
he’s just going to have to deal with the consequence 
of that choice — me.” 

I shook my head. “You’re impossible.” 

Suddenly, he was serious. He took my chin in his 
hand, holding it firmly so that I couldn’t look away 
from his intent gaze. 

“Until your heart stops beating, Bella,” he said. “I’ll be 
here — fighting. Don’t forget that you have options.” 

“I don’t want options,” I disagreed, trying to yank my 
chin free unsuccessfully. “And my heartbeats are 
numbered, Jacob. The time is almost gone.” 

His eyes narrowed. “All the more reason to fight — 
fight harder now, while I can,” he whispered. 

He still had my chin — his fingers holding too tight, 
till it hurt — and I saw the resolve form abruptly in 
his eyes. 

“N — ” I started to object, but it was too late. 

His lips crushed mine, stopping my protest. He kissed 
me angrily, roughly, his other hand gripping tight 
around the back of my neck, making escape 
impossible. I shoved against his chest with all my 
strength, but he didn’t even seem to notice. His 



351 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




mouth was soft, despite the anger, his lips molding to 
mine in a warm, unfamiliar way. 

I grabbed at his face, trying to push it away, failing 
again. He seemed to notice this time, though, and it 
aggravated him. His lips forced mine open, and I 
could feel his hot breath in my mouth. 

Acting on instinct, I let my hands drop to my side, 
and shut down. I opened my eyes and didn’t fight, 
didn’t feel ... just waited for him to stop. 

It worked. The anger seemed to evaporate, and he 
pulled back to look at me. He pressed his lips softly to 
mine again, once, twice ... a third time. I pretended I 
was a statue and waited. 

Finally, he let go of my face and leaned away. 

“Are you done now?” I asked in an expressionless 
voice. 

“Yes,” he sighed. He started to smile, closing his eyes. 

I pulled my arm back and then let it snap forward, 
punching him in the mouth with as much power as I 
could force out of my body. 

There was a crunching sound. 

“Ow! OW!” I screamed, frantically hopping up and 
down in agony while I clutched my hand to my chest. 
It was broken, I could feel it. 

Jacob stared at me in shock. “Are you all right?” 

“No, dammit! You broke my hand!” 



352 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella, you broke your hand. Now stop dancing 
around and let me look at it.” 



“Don’t touch me! I’m going home right now!” 

“I’ll get my car,” he said calmly. He wasn’t even 
rubbing his jaw like they did in the movies. How 
pathetic. 

“No, thanks,” I hissed. “I’d rather walk.” I turned 
toward the road. It was only a few miles to the border. 
As soon as I got away from him, Alice would see me. 
She’d send somebody to pick me up. 

“Just let me drive you home,” Jacob insisted. 
Unbelievably, he had the nerve to wrap his arm 
around my waist. 

I jerked away from him. 

“Fine!” I growled. “Do! I can’t wait to see what Edward 
does to you! I hope he snaps your neck, you pushy, 
obnoxious, moronic DOG!” 

Jacob rolled his eyes. He walked me to the passenger 
side of his car and helped me in. When he got in the 
driver’s side, he was whistling. 

“Didn’t I hurt you at all?” I asked, furious and 
annoyed. 

“Are you kidding? If you hadn’t started screaming, I 
might not have figured out that you were trying to 
punch me. I may not be made out of stone, but I’m 
not that soft.” 

“I hate you, Jacob Black.” 

“That’s good. Hate is a passionate emotion.” 

353 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll give you passionate,” I muttered under my breath. 
“Murder, the ultimate crime of passion.” 

“Oh, c’mon,” he said, all cheery and looking like he 
was about to start whistling again. “That had to be 
better than kissing a rock.” 

“Not even remotely close,” I told him coldly. 

He pursed his lips. “You could just be saying that.” 

“But I’m not.” 

That seemed to bother him for a second, but then he 
perked up. “You’re just mad. I don’t have any 
experience with this kind of thing, but I thought it 
was pretty incredible myself.” 

“Ugh,” I groaned. 

“You’re going to think about it tonight. When he 
thinks you’re asleep, you’ll be thinking about your 
options.” 

“If I think about you tonight, it will be because I’m 
having a nightmare.” 

He slowed the car to a crawl, turning to stare at me 
with his dark eyes wide and earnest. “Just think 
about how it could be, Bella,” he urged in a soft, eager 
voice. “You wouldn’t have to change anything for me. 
You know Charlie would be happy if you picked me. I 
could protect you just as well as your vampire can — 
maybe better. And I would make you happy, Bella. 
There’s so much I could give you that he can’t. I’ll bet 
he couldn’t even kiss you like that — because he 
would hurt you. I would never, never hurt you, Bella.” 



I held up my injured hand. 

354 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He sighed. “That wasn’t my fault. You should have 
known better.” 

“Jacob, I can’t be happy without him.” 

“You’ve never tried,” he disagreed. “When he left, you 
spent all your energy holding on to him. You could be 
happy if you let go. You could be happy with me.” 

“I don’t want to be happy with anyone but him,” I 
insisted. 

“You’ll never be able to be as sure of him as you are of 
me. He left you once, he could do it again.” 

“No, he will not,” I said through my teeth. The pain of 
the memory bit into me like the lash of a whip. It 
made me want to hurt him back. “You left me once,” I 
reminded him in a cold voice, thinking of the weeks 
he’d hidden from me, the words he’d said to me in the 
woods beside his home... . 

“I never did,” he argued hotly. “They told me I couldn’t 
tell you — that it wasn’t safe for you if we were 
together. But I never left, never! I used to run around 
your house at night — like I do now. Just making 
sure you were okay.” 

I wasn’t about to let him make me feel bad for him 
now. 

“Take me home. My hand hurts.” 

He sighed, and started driving at a normal speed, 
watching the road. 

“Just think about it, Bella.” 

“No,” I said stubbornly. 

355 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You will. Tonight. And I’ll be thinking about you 
while you’re thinking about me.” 



“Like I said, a nightmare.” 

He grinned over at me. “You kissed me back.” 

I gasped, unthinkingly balling my hands up into fists 
again, hissing when my broken hand reacted. 

“Are you okay?” he asked. 

“I did not.” 

“I think I can tell the difference.” 

“Obviously you can’t — that was not kissing back, 
that was trying to get you the hell off of me, you 
idiot.” 

He laughed a low, throaty laugh. “Touchy. Almost 
overly defensive, I would say.” 

I took a deep breath. There was no point in arguing 
with him; he would twist anything I said. I 
concentrated on my hand, trying to stretch out my 
fingers, to ascertain where the broken parts were. 
Sharp pains stabbed along my knuckles. I groaned. 

“I’m really sorry about your hand,” Jacob said, 
sounding almost sincere. “Next time you want to hit 
me, use a baseball bat or a crowbar, okay?” 

“Don’t think I’ll forget that,” I muttered. 

I didn’t realize where we were going until we were on 
my road. 

“Why are you taking me here?” I demanded. 

356 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He looked at me blankly. “I thought you said you were 
going home?” 

“Ugh. I guess you can’t take me to Edward’s house, 
can you?” I ground my teeth in frustration. 

Pain twisted across his face, and I could see that this 
affected him more than anything else I’d said. 

“This is your home, Bella,” he said quietly. 

“Yes, but do any doctors live here?” I asked, holding 
up my hand again. 

“Oh.” He thought about that for a minute. “I’ll take 
you to the hospital. Or Charlie can.” 

“I don’t want to go to the hospital. It’s embarrassing 
and unnecessary.” 

He let the Rabbit idle in front of the house, 
deliberating with an unsure expression. Charlie’s 
cruiser was in the driveway. 

I sighed. “Go home, Jacob.” 

I climbed out of the car awkwardly, heading for the 
house. The engine cut off behind me, and I was less 
surprised than annoyed to find Jacob beside me 
again. 

“What are you going to do?” he asked. 

“I am going to get some ice on my hand, and then I 
am going to call Edward and tell him to come and get 
me and take me to Carlisle so that he can fix my 
hand. Then, if you’re still here, I am going to go hunt 
up a crowbar.” 



357 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He didn’t answer. He opened the front door and held 
it for me. 

We walked silently past the front room where Charlie 
was lying on the sofa. 

“Hey, kids,” he said, sitting forward. “Nice to see you 
here, Jake.” 

“Hey, Charlie,” Jacob answered casually, pausing. I 
stalked on to the kitchen. 

“What’s wrong with her?” Charlie wondered. 

“She thinks she broke her hand,” I heard Jacob tell 
him. I went to the freezer and pulled out a tray of ice 
cubes. 

“How did she do that?” As my father, I thought 
Charlie ought to sound a bit less amused and a bit 
more concerned. 

Jacob laughed. “She hit me.” 

Charlie laughed, too, and I scowled while I beat the 
tray against the edge of the sink. The ice scattered 
inside the basin, and I grabbed a handful with my 
good hand and wrapped the cubes in the dishcloth on 
the counter. 

“Why did she hit you?” 

“Because I kissed her,” Jacob said, unashamed. 

“Good for you, kid,” Charlie congratulated him. 

I ground my teeth and went for the phone. I dialed 
Edward’s cell. 



358 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella?” he answered on the first ring. He sounded 
more than relieved — he was delighted. I could hear 
the Volvo’s engine in the background; he was already 
in the car — that was good. “You left the phone ... I’m 
sorry, did Jacob drive you home?” 

“Yes,” I grumbled. “Will you come and get me, 
please?” 

“I’m on my way,” he said at once. “What’s wrong?” 

“I want Carlisle to look at my hand. I think it’s 
broken.” 

It had gone quiet in the front room, and I wondered 
when Jacob would bolt. I smiled a grim smile, 
imagining his discomfort. 

“What happened?” Edward demanded, his voice going 
flat. 

“I punched Jacob,” I admitted. 

“Good,” Edward said bleakly. “Though I’m sorry you’re 
hurt.” 

I laughed once, because he sounded as pleased as 
Charlie had. 

“I wish I’d hurt him.” I sighed in frustration. “I didn’t 
do any damage at all.” 

“I can fix that,” he offered. 

“I was hoping you would say that.” 

There was a slight pause. “That doesn’t sound like 
you,” he said, wary now. “What did he do?” 



359 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He kissed me,” I growled. 

All I heard on the other end of the line was the sound 
of an engine accelerating. 

In the other room, Charlie spoke again. “Maybe you 
ought to take off, Jake,” he suggested. 

“I think I’ll hang out here, if you don’t mind.” 

“Your funeral,” Charlie muttered. 

“Is the dog still there?” Edward finally spoke again. 

“Yes.” 

“I’m around the corner,” he said darkly, and the line 
disconnected. 

As I hung up the phone, smiling, I heard the sound of 
his car racing down the street. The brakes protested 
loudly as he slammed to a stop out front. I went to get 
the door. 

“How’s your hand?” Charlie asked as I walked by. 
Charlie looked uncomfortable. Jacob lolled next to 
him on the sofa, perfectly at ease. 

I lifted the ice pack to show it off. “It’s swelling.” 

“Maybe you should pick on people your own size,” 
Charlie suggested. 

“Maybe,” I agreed. I walked on to open the door. 
Edward was waiting. 

“Let me see,” he murmured. 



360 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He examined my hand gently, so carefully that it 
caused me no pain at all. His hands were almost as 
cold as the ice, and they felt good against my skin. 

“I think you’re right about the break,” he said. “I’m 
proud of you. You must have put some force behind 
this.” 

“As much as I have.” I sighed. “Not enough, 
apparently.” 

He kissed my hand softly. “I’ll take care of it,” he 
promised. And then he called, “Jacob,” his voice still 
quiet and even. 

“Now, now,” Charlie cautioned. 

I heard Charlie heave himself off of the sofa. Jacob got 
to the hall first, and much more quietly, but Charlie 
was not far behind him. Jacob’s expression was alert 
and eager. 

“I don’t want any fighting, do you understand?” 
Charlie looked only at Edward when he spoke. “I can 
go put my badge on if that makes my request more 
official.” 

“That won’t be necessary,” Edward said in a 
restrained tone. 

“Why don’t you arrest me, Dad?” I suggested. “I’m the 
one throwing punches.” 

Charlie raised an eyebrow. “Do you want to press 
charges, Jake?” 

“No.” Jacob grinned, incorrigible. “I’ll take the trade 
any day.” 



361 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward grimaced. 

“Dad, don’t you have a baseball bat somewhere in 
your room? I want to borrow it for a minute.” 

Charlie looked at me evenly. “Enough, Bella.” 

“Let’s go have Carlisle look at your hand before you 
wind up in a jail cell,” Edward said. He put his arm 
around me and pulled me toward the door. 

“Fine,” I said, leaning against him. I wasn’t so angry 
anymore, now that Edward was with me. I felt 
comforted, and my hand didn’t bother me as much. 

We were walking down the sidewalk when I heard 
Charlie whispering anxiously behind me. 

“What are you doing? Are you crazy?” 

“Give me a minute, Charlie,” Jacob answered. “Don’t 
worry, I’ll be right back.” 

I looked back and Jacob was following us, stopping to 
close the door in Charlie’s surprised and uneasy face. 

Edward ignored him at first, leading me to the car. He 
helped me inside, shut the door, and then turned to 
face Jacob on the sidewalk. 

I leaned anxiously through the open window. Charlie 
was visible in the house, peeking through the drapes 
in the front room. 

Jacob’s stance was casual, his arms folded across his 
chest, but the muscles in his jaw were tight. 



362 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward spoke in a voice so peaceful and gentle that it 
made the words strangely more threatening. “I’m not 
going to kill you now, because it would upset Bella.” 

“Hmph,” I grumbled. 

Edward turned slightly to throw me a quick smile. His 
face was still calm. “It would bother you in the 
morning,” he said, brushing his fingers across my 
cheek. 

Then he turned back to Jacob. “But if you ever bring 
her back damaged again — and I don’t care whose 
fault it is; I don’t care if she merely trips, or if a 
meteor falls out of the sky and hits her in the head — 
if you return her to me in less than the perfect 
condition that I left her in, you will be running with 
three legs. Do you understand that, mongrel?” 

Jacob rolled his eyes. 

“Who’s going back?” I muttered. 

Edward continued as if he hadn’t heard me. “And if 
you ever kiss her again, I will break your jaw for her,” 
he promised, his voice still gentle and velvet and 
deadly. 

“What if she wants me to?” Jacob drawled, arrogant. 
“Hah!” I snorted. 

“If that’s what she wants, then I won’t object.” Edward 
shrugged, untroubled. “You might want to wait for 
her to say it, rather than trust your interpretation of 
body language — but it’s your face.” 

Jacob grinned. 



363 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You wish,” I grumbled. 

“Yes, he does,” Edward murmured. 

“Well, if you’re done rummaging through my head,” 
Jacob said with a thick edge of annoyance, “why don’t 
you go take care of her hand?” 

“One more thing,” Edward said slowly. “I’ll be fighting 
for her, too. You should know that. I’m not taking 
anything for granted, and I’ll be fighting twice as hard 
as you will.” 

“Good,” Jacob growled. “It’s no fun beating someone 
who forfeits.” 

“She is mine.” Edward’s low voice was suddenly dark, 
not as composed as before. “I didn’t say I would fight 
fair.” 

“Neither did I.” 

“Best of luck.” 

Jacob nodded. “Yes, may the best man win.” 

“That sounds about right ... pup.” 

Jacob grimaced briefly, then he composed his face 
and leaned around Edward to smile at me. I glowered 
back. 

“I hope your hand feels better soon. I’m really sorry 
you’re hurt.” 

Childishly, I turned my face away from him. 

I didn’t look up again as Edward walked around the 
car and climbed into the driver’s side, so I didn’t 

364 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




know if Jacob went back into the house or continued 
to stand there, watching me. 

“How do you feel?” Edward asked as we drove away. 
“Irritated.” 

He chuckled. “I meant your hand.” 

I shrugged. “I’ve had worse.” 

“True,” he agreed, and frowned. 

Edward drove around the house to the garage. 

Emmett and Rosalie were there, Rosalie’s perfect legs, 
recognizable even sheathed in jeans, were sticking out 
from under the bottom of Emmett’s huge Jeep. 
Emmett was sitting beside her, one hand reached 
under the Jeep toward her. It took me a moment to 
realize that he was acting as the jack. 

Emmett watched curiously as Edward helped me 
carefully out of the car. His eyes zeroed in on the 
hand I cradled against my chest. 

Emmett grinned. “Fall down again, Bella?” 

I glared at him fiercely. “No, Emmett. I punched a 
werewolf in the face.” 

Emmett blinked, and then burst into a roar of 
laughter. 

As Edward led me past them, Rosalie spoke from 
under the car. 

“Jasper’s going to win the bet,” she said smugly. 



365 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett’s laughter stopped at once, and he studied 
me with appraising eyes. 



“What bet?” I demanded, pausing. 

“Let’s get you to Carlisle,” Edward urged. He was 
staring at Emmett. His head shook infinitesimally. 

“What bet?” I insisted as I turned on him. 

“Thanks, Rosalie,” he muttered as he tightened his 
arm around my waist and pulled me toward the 
house. 

“Edward ... ,” I grumbled. 

“It’s infantile,” he shrugged. “Emmett and Jasper like 
to gamble.” 

“Emmett will tell me.” I tried to turn, but his arm was 
like iron around me. 

He sighed. “They’re betting on how many times you ... 
slip up in the first year.” 

“Oh.” I grimaced, trying to hide my sudden horror as I 
realized what he meant. “They have a bet about how 
many people I’ll kill?” 

“Yes,” he admitted unwillingly. “Rosalie thinks your 
temper will turn the odds in Jasper’s favor.” 

I felt a little high. “Jasper’s betting high.” 

“It will make him feel better if you have a hard time 
adjusting. He’s tired of being the weakest link.” 

“Sure. Of course it will. I guess I could throw in a few 
extra homicides, if it makes Jasper happy. Why not?” 

366 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I was babbling, my voice a blank monotone. In my 
head, I was seeing newspaper headlines, lists of 
names... . 

He squeezed me. “You don’t need to worry about it 
now. In fact, you don’t have to worry about it ever, if 
you don’t want to.” 

I groaned, and Edward, thinking it was the pain in my 
hand that bothered me, pulled me faster toward the 
house. 

My hand was broken, but there wasn’t any serious 
damage, just a tiny fissure in one knuckle. I didn’t 
want a cast, and Carlisle said I’d be fine in a brace if I 
promised to keep it on. I promised. 

Edward could tell I was out of it as Carlisle worked to 
fit a brace carefully to my hand. He worried aloud a 
few times that I was in pain, but I assured him that 
that wasn’t it. 

As if I needed — or even had room for — one more 
thing to worry about. 

All of Jasper’s stories about newly created vampires 
had been percolating in my head since he’d explained 
his past. Now those stories jumped into sharp focus 
with the news of his and Emmett’s wager. I wondered 
randomly what they were betting. What was a 
motivating prize when you had everything? 

I’d always known that I would be different. I hoped 
that I would be as strong as Edward said I would be. 
Strong and fast and, most of all, beautiful. Someone 
who could stand next to Edward and feel like she 
belonged there. 



367 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I’d been trying not to think too much about the other 
things that I would be. Wild. Bloodthirsty. Maybe I 
would not be able to stop myself from killing people. 
Strangers, people who had never harmed me. People 
like the growing number of victims in Seattle, who’d 
had families and friends and futures. People who’d 
had lives. And I could be the monster who took that 
away from them. 

But, in truth, I could handle that part — because I 
trusted Edward, trusted him absolutely, to keep me 
from doing anything I would regret. I knew he’d take 
me to Antarctica and hunt penguins if I asked him to. 
And I would do whatever it took to be a good person. 
A good vampire. That thought would have made me 
giggle, if not for this new worry. 

Because, if I really were somehow like that — like the 
nightmarish images of newborns that Jasper had 
painted in my head — could I possibly be me? And if 
all I wanted was to kill people, what would happen to 
the things I wanted now? 

Edward was so obsessed with me not missing 
anything while I was human. Usually, it seemed kind 
of silly. There weren’t many human experiences that I 
worried about missing. As long as I got to be with 
Edward, what else could I ask for? 

I stared at his face while he watched Carlisle fix my 
hand. There was nothing in this world that I wanted 
more than him. Would that, could that, change? 

Was there a human experience that I was not willing 
to give up? 



368 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





“I have nothing to wear!” I moaned to myself. 

Every item of clothing I owned was strewn across my 
bed; my drawers and closets were bare. I stared into 
the empty recesses, willing something suitable to 
appear. 

My khaki skirt lay over the back of the rocking chair, 
waiting for me to discover something that went with it 
just exactly right. Something that would make me 
look beautiful and grown up. Something that said 
special occasion. I was coming up empty. 

It was almost time to go, and I was still wearing my 
favorite old sweats. Unless I could find something 
better here — and the odds weren’t looking good at 
this point — I was going to graduate in them. 

I scowled at the pile of clothes on my bed. 

The kicker was that I knew exactly what I would have 
worn if it were still available — my kidnapped red 
blouse. I punched the wall with my good hand. 

“Stupid, thieving, annoying vampire!” I growled. 

“What did I do?” Alice demanded. 

She was leaning casually beside the open window as 
if she’d been there the whole time. 

“Knock, knock,” she added with a grin. 

“Is it really so hard to wait for me to get the door?” 

369 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



She threw a flat, white box onto my bed. “I’m just 
passing through. I thought you might need something 
to wear.” 

I looked at the big package lying on top of my 
unsatisfying wardrobe and grimaced. 

“Admit it,” Alice said. “I’m a lifesaver.” 

“You’re a lifesaver,” I muttered. “Thanks.” 

“Well, it’s nice to get something right for a change. 

You don’t know how irritating it is — missing things 
the way I have been. I feel so useless. So ... normal.” 
She cringed in horror of the word. 

“I can’t imagine how awful that must feel. Being 
normal? Ugh.” 

She laughed. “Well, at least this makes up for missing 
your annoying thief — now I just have to figure out 
what I’m not seeing in Seattle.” 

When she said the words that way — putting the two 
situations together in one sentence — right then it 
clicked. The elusive something that had been 
bothering me for days, the important connection that 
I couldn’t quite put together, suddenly became clear. I 
stared at her, my face frozen with whatever 
expression was already in place. 

“Aren’t you going to open it?” she asked. She sighed 
when I didn’t move immediately, and tugged the top 
of the box off herself. She pulled something out and 
held it up, but I couldn’t concentrate on what it was. 
“Pretty, don’t you think? I picked blue, because I 
know it’s Edward’s favorite on you.” 



I wasn’t listening. 

370 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s the same,” I whispered. 

“What is?” she demanded. “You don’t have anything 
like this. For crying out loud, you only own one skirt!” 

“No, Alice! Forget the clothes, listen!” 

“You don’t like it?” Alice’s face clouded with 
disappointment. 

“Listen, Alice, don’t you see? It’s the same! The one 
who broke in and stole my things, and the new 
vampires in Seattle. They’re together!” 

The clothes slipped from her fingers and fell back into 
the box. 

Alice focused now, her voice suddenly sharp. “Why do 
you think that?” 

“Remember what Edward said? About someone using 
the holes in your vision to keep you from seeing the 
newborns? And then what you said before, about the 
timing being too perfect — how careful my thief was 
to make no contact, as if he knew you would see that. 
I think you were right, Alice, I think he did know. I 
think he was using those holes, too. And what are the 
odds that two different people not only know enough 
about you to do that, but also decided to do it at 
exactly the same time? No way. It’s one person. The 
same one. The one who is making the army is the one 
who stole my scent.” 

Alice wasn’t accustomed to being taking by surprise. 
She froze, and was still for so long that I started 
counting in my head as I waited. She didn’t move for 
two minutes straight. Then her eyes refocused on me. 



371 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You’re right,” she said in a hollow tone. “Of course 
you’re right. And when you put it that way... .” 

“Edward had it wrong,” I whispered. “It was a test ... 
to see if it would work. If he could get in and out 
safely as long as he didn’t do anything you would be 
watching out for. Like trying to kill me... . And he 
didn’t take my things to prove he’d found me. He stole 
my scent ... so that others could find me.” 

Her eyes were wide with shock. I was right, and I 
could see that she knew it, too. 

“Oh, no,” she mouthed. 

I was through expecting my emotions to make sense 
anymore. As I processed the fact that someone had 
created an army of vampires — the army that had 
gruesomely murdered dozens of people in Seattle — 
for the express purpose of destroying me, I felt a 
spasm of relief. 

Part of it was finally solving that irritating feeling that 
I was missing something vital. 

But the larger part was something else entirely. 

“Well,” I whispered, “everyone can relax. Nobody’s 
trying to exterminate the Cullens after all.” 

“If you think that one thing has changed, you’re 
absolutely wrong,” Alice said through her teeth. “If 
someone wants one of us, they’re going to have to go 
through the rest of us to get to her.” 

“Thanks, Alice. But at least we know what they’re 
really after. That has to help.” 



372 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Maybe,” she muttered. She started pacing back and 
forth across my room. 

Thud, thud — a fist hammered against my door. 

I jumped. Alice didn’t seem to notice. 

“Aren’t you ready yet? We’re gonna be late!” Charlie 
complained, sounding edgy. Charlie hated occasions 
about as much as I did. In his case, a lot of the 
problem was having to dress up. 

“Almost. Give me a minute,” I said hoarsely. 

He was quiet for half a second. “Are you crying?” 

“No. I’m nervous. Go away.” 

I heard him clump down the stairs. 

“I have to go,” Alice whispered. 

“Why?” 

“Edward is coming. If he hears this ...” 

“Go, go!” I urged immediately. Edward would go 
berserk when he knew. I couldn’t keep it from him for 
long, but maybe the graduation ceremony wasn’t the 
best time for his reaction. 

“Put it on,” Alice commanded as she flitted out the 
window. 

I did what she said, dressing in a daze. 

I’d been planning to do something more sophisticated 
with my hair, but time was up, so it hung straight 
and boring as on any other day. It didn’t matter. I 

373 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




didn’t bother to look in the mirror, so I had no idea 
how Alice’s sweater and skirt ensemble worked. That 
didn’t matter, either. I threw the ugly yellow polyester 
graduation robe over my arm and hurried down the 
stairs. 

“You look nice,” Charlie said, already gruff with 
suppressed emotion. “Is that new?” 

“Yeah,” I mumbled, trying to concentrate. “Alice gave 
it to me. Thanks.” 

Edward arrived just a few minutes after his sister left. 
It wasn’t enough time for me to pull together a calm 
fapade. But, since we were riding in the cruiser with 
Charlie, he never had a chance to ask me what was 
wrong. 

Charlie had gotten stubborn last week when he’d 
learned that I was intending to ride with Edward to 
the graduation ceremony. And I could see his point — 
parents should have some rights come graduation 
day. I’d conceded with good grace, and Edward had 
cheerfully suggested that we all go together. Since 
Carlisle and Esme had no problem with this, Charlie 
couldn’t come up with a compelling objection; he’d 
agreed with poor grace. And now Edward rode in the 
backseat of my father’s police car, behind the 
fiberglass divider, with an amused expression — 
probably due to my father’s amused expression, and 
the grin that widened every time Charlie stole a 
glance at Edward in his rearview mirror. Which 
almost certainly meant that Charlie was imagining 
things that would get him in trouble with me if he 
said them out loud. 

“Are you all right?” Edward whispered when he 
helped me from the front seat in the school parking 
lot. 

374 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nervous,” I answered, and it wasn’t even a lie. 

“You are so beautiful,” he said. 

He looked like he wanted to say more, but Charlie, in 
an obvious maneuver that he meant to be subtle, 
shrugged in between us and put his arm around my 
shoulders. 

“Are you excited?” he asked me. 

“Not really,” I admitted. 

“Bella, this is a big deal. You’re graduating from high 
school. It’s the real world for you now. College. Living 
on your own... . You’re not my little girl anymore.” 
Charlie choked up a bit at the end. 

“Dad,” I moaned. “Please don’t get all weepy on me.” 

“Who’s weepy?” he growled. “Now, why aren’t you 
excited?” 

“I don’t know, Dad. I guess it hasn’t hit yet or 
something.” 

“It’s good that Alice is throwing this party. You need 
something to perk you up.” 

“Sure. A party’s exactly what I need.” 

Charlie laughed at my tone and squeezed my 
shoulders. Edward looked at the clouds, his face 
thoughtful. 

My father had to leave us at the back door of the gym 
and go around to the main entrance with the rest of 
the parents. 



375 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It was pandemonium as Ms. Cope from the front 
office and Mr. Varner the math teacher tried to line 
everyone up alphabetically. 

“Up front, Mr. Cullen,” Mr. Varner barked at Edward. 
“Hey, Bella!” 

I looked up to see Jessica Stanley waving at me from 
the back of the line with a smile on her face. 

Edward kissed me quickly, sighed, and went to go 
stand with the C’s. Alice wasn’t there. What was she 
going to do? Skip graduation? What poor timing on 
my part. I should have waited to figure things out 
until after this was over with. 

“Down here, Bella!” Jessica called again. 

I walked down the line to take my place behind 
Jessica, mildly curious as to why she was suddenly 
so friendly. As I got closer, I saw Angela five people 
back, watching Jessica with the same curiosity. 

Jess was babbling before I was in earshot. 

"... so amazing. I mean, it seems like we just met, and 
now we’re graduating together,” she gushed. “Can you 
believe it’s over? I feel like screaming!” 

“So do I,” I muttered. 

“This is all just so incredible. Do you remember your 
first day here? We were friends, like, right away. From 
the first time we saw each other. Amazing. And now 
I’m off to California and you’ll be in Alaska and I’m 
going to miss you so much! You have to promise that 
we’ll get together sometimes! I’m so glad you’re having 
a party. That’s perfect. Because we really haven’t 
376 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




spent much time together in a while and now we’re all 
leaving... .” 

She droned on and on, and I was sure the sudden 
return of our friendship was due to graduation 
nostalgia and gratitude for the party invite, not that 
I’d had anything to do with that. I paid attention as 
well as I could while I shrugged into my robe. And I 
found that I was glad that things could end on a good 
note with Jessica. 

Because it was an ending, no matter what Eric, the 
valedictorian, had to say about commencement 
meaning “beginning” and all the rest of the trite 
nonsense. Maybe more for me than for the rest, but 
we were all leaving something behind us today. 

It went so quickly. I felt like I’d hit the fast forward 
button. Were we supposed to march quite that fast? 
And then Eric was speed talking in his nervousness, 
the words and phrases running together so they 
didn’t make sense anymore. Principal Greene started 
calling names, one after the other without a long 
enough pause between; the front row in the 
gymnasium was rushing to catch up. Poor Ms. Cope 
was all thumbs as she tried to give the principal the 
right diploma to hand to the right student. 

I watched as Alice, suddenly appearing, danced 
across the stage to take hers, a look of deep 
concentration on her face. Edward followed behind, 
his expression confused, but not upset. Only the two 
of them could carry off the hideous yellow and still 
look the way they did. They stood out from the rest of 
the crowd, their beauty and grace otherworldly. I 
wondered how I’d ever fallen for their human farce. A 
couple of angels, standing there with wings intact, 
would be less conspicuous. 



377 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I heard Mr. Greene call my name and I rose from my 
chair, waiting for the line in front of me to move. I was 
conscious of cheering in the back of the gym, and I 
looked around to see Jacob pulling Charlie to his feet, 
both of them hooting in encouragement. I could just 
make out the top of Billy’s head beside Jake’s elbow. I 
managed to throw them an approximation of a smile. 

Mr. Greene finished with the list of names, and then 
continued to hand out diplomas with a sheepish grin 
as we filed past. 

“Congratulations, Miss Stanley,” he mumbled as Jess 
took hers. 

“Congratulations, Miss Swan,” he mumbled to me, 
pressing the diploma into my good hand. 

“Thanks,” I murmured. 

And that was it. 

I went to stand next to Jessica with the assembled 
graduates. Jess was all red around the eyes, and she 
kept blotting her face with the sleeve of her robe. It 
took me a second to understand that she was crying. 

Mr. Greene said something I didn’t hear, and 
everyone around me shouted and screamed. Yellow 
hats rained down. I pulled mine off, too late, and just 
let it fall to the ground. 

“Oh, Bella!” Jess blubbered over the sudden roar of 
conversation. “I can’t believe we’re done.” 

“I can’t believe it’s all over,” I mumbled. 

She threw her arms around my neck. “You have to 
promise we won’t lose touch.” 

378 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I hugged her back, feeling a little awkward as I 
dodged her request. “I’m so glad I know you, Jessica. 

It was a good two years.” 

“It was,” she sighed, and sniffed. Then she dropped 
her arms. “Lauren!” she squealed, waving over her 
head and pushing through the massed yellow gowns. 
Families were beginning to converge, pressing us 
tighter together. 

I caught sight of Angela and Ben, but they were 
surrounded by their families. I would congratulate 
them later. 

I craned my head, looking for Alice. 

“Congratulations,” Edward whispered in my ear, his 
arms winding around my waist. His voice was 
subdued; he’d been in no hurry for me to reach this 
particular milestone. 

“Urn, thanks.” 

“You don’t look like you’re over the nerves yet,” he 
noted. 

“Not quite yet.” 

“What’s left to worry about? The party? It won’t be 
that horrible.” 

“You’re probably right.” 

“Who are you looking for?” 

My searching wasn’t quite as subtle as I’d thought. 
“Alice — where is she?” 

“She ran out as soon as she had her diploma.” 

379 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His voice took on a new tone. I looked up to see his 
confused expression as he stared toward the back 
door of the gym, and I made an impulse decision — 
the kind I really should think twice about, but rarely 
did. 

“Worrying about Alice?” I asked. 

“Er ...” He didn’t want to answer that. 

“What was she thinking about, anyway? To keep you 
out, I mean.” 

His eyes flashed down to my face, and narrowed in 
suspicion. “She was translating the Battle Hymn of 
the Republic into Arabic, actually. When she finished 
that, she moved on to Korean sign language.” 

I laughed nervously. “I suppose that would keep her 
head busy enough.” 

“You know what she’s hiding from me,” he accused. 

“Sure.” I smiled a weak smile. “I’m the one who came 
up with it.” 

He waited, confused. 

I looked around. Charlie would be on his way through 
the crowd now. 

“Knowing Alice,” I whispered in a rush, “she’ll 
probably try to keep this from you until after the 
party. But since I’m all for the party being canceled — 
well, don’t go berserk, regardless, okay? It’s always 
better to know as much as possible. It has to help 
somehow.” 

“What are you talking about?” 

380 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I saw Charlie’s head bob up over the other heads as 
he searched for me. He spotted me and waved. 

“Just stay calm, okay?” 

He nodded once, his mouth a grim line. 

In hurried whispers I explained my reasoning to him. 
“I think you’re wrong about things coming at us from 
all sides. I think it’s mostly coming at us from one 
side ... and I think it’s coming at me, really. It’s all 
connected, it has to be. It’s just one person who’s 
messing with Alice’s visions. The stranger in my room 
was a test, to see if someone could get around her. It’s 
got to be the same one who keeps changing his mind, 
and the newborns, and stealing my clothes — all of it 
goes together. My scent is for them.” 

His face had turned so white that I had a hard time 
finishing. 

“But no one’s coming for you, don’t you see? This is 
good — Esme and Alice and Carlisle, no one wants to 
hurt them!” 

His eyes were huge, wide with panic, dazed and 
horrified. He could see that I was right, just as Alice 
had. 

I put my hand on his cheek. “Calm,” I pleaded. 

“Bella!” Charlie crowed, pushing his way past the 
close-packed families around us. 

“Congratulations, baby!” He was still yelling, even 
though he was right at my ear now. He wrapped his 
arms around me, ever so slyly shuffling Edward off to 
the side as he did so. 



381 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thanks,” I muttered, preoccupied by the expression 
on Edward’s face. He still hadn’t gained control. His 
hands were halfway extended toward me, like he was 
about to grab me and make a run for it. Only slightly 
more in control of myself than he was, running didn’t 
seem like such a terrible idea to me. 

“Jacob and Billy had to take off — did you see that 
they were here?” Charlie asked, taking a step back, 
but keeping his hands on my shoulders. He had his 
back to Edward — probably an effort to exclude him, 
but that was fine at the moment. Edward’s mouth 
was hanging open, his eyes still wide with dread. 

“Yeah,” I assured my father, trying to pay enough 
attention. “Heard them, too.” 

“It was nice of them to show up,” Charlie said. 

“Mm-hmm.” 

Okay, so telling Edward had been a really bad idea. 
Alice was right to keep her thoughts clouded. I should 
have waited till we were alone somewhere, maybe 
with the rest of his family. And nothing breakable 
close by — like windows ... cars ... school buildings. 
His face brought back all my fear and then some. 
Though his expression was past the fear now — it 
was pure fury that was suddenly plain on his 
features. 

“So where do you want to go out for dinner?” Charlie 
asked. “The sky’s the limit.” 

“I can cook.” 

“Don’t be silly. Do you want to go to the Lodge?” he 
asked with an eager smile. 



382 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I did not particularly enjoy Charlie’s favorite 
restaurant, but, at this point, what was the 
difference? I wasn’t going to be able to eat anyway. 

“Sure, the Lodge, cool,” I said. 

Charlie smiled wider, and then sighed. He turned his 
head halfway toward Edward, without really looking 
at him. 

“You coming, too, Edward?” 

I stared at him, my eyes beseeching. Edward pulled 
his expression together just before Charlie turned to 
see why he hadn’t gotten an answer. 

“No, thank you,” Edward said stiffly, his face hard 
and cold. 

“Do you have plans with your parents?” Charlie 
asked, a frown in his voice. Edward was always more 
polite than Charlie deserved; the sudden hostility 
surprised him. 

“Yes. If you’ll excuse me... .” Edward turned abruptly 
and stalked away through the dwindling crowd. He 
moved just a little bit too fast, too upset to keep up 
his usually perfect charade. 

“What did I say?” Charlie asked with a guilty 
expression. 

“Don’t worry about it, Dad,” I reassured him. “I don’t 
think it’s you.” 

“Are you two fighting again?” 

“Nobody’s fighting. Mind your own business.” 



383 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You are my business.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Let’s go eat.” 

The Lodge was crowded. The place was, in my 
opinion, overpriced and tacky, but it was the only 
thing close to a formal restaurant in town, so it was 
always popular for events. I stared morosely at a 
depressed-looking stuffed elk head while Charlie ate 
prime rib and talked over the back of the seat to Tyler 
Crowley’s parents. It was noisy — everyone there had 
just come from graduation, and most were chatting 
across the aisles and over the booth-tops like Charlie. 

I had my back to the front windows, and I resisted the 
urge to turn around and search for the eyes I could 
feel on me now. I knew I wouldn’t be able to see 
anything. Just as I knew there was no chance that he 
would leave me unguarded, even for a second. Not 
after this. 

Dinner dragged. Charlie, busy socializing, ate too 
slowly. I picked at my burger, stuffing pieces of it into 
my napkin when I was sure his attention was 
somewhere else. It all seemed to take a very long time, 
but when I looked at the clock — which I did more 
often than necessary — the hands hadn’t moved 
much. 

Finally Charlie got his change back and put a tip on 
the table. I stood up. 

“In a hurry?” he asked me. 

“I want to help Alice set things up,” I claimed. 

“Okay.” He turned away from me to say goodnight to 
everyone. I went out to wait by the cruiser. 



384 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I leaned against the passenger door, waiting for 
Charlie to drag himself away from the impromptu 
party. It was almost dark in the parking lot, the 
clouds so thick that there was no telling if the sun 
had set or not. The air felt heavy, like it was about to 
rain. 

Something moved in the shadows. 

My gasp turned into a sigh of relief as Edward 
appeared out of the gloom. 

Without a word, he pulled me tightly against his 
chest. One cool hand found my chin, and pulled my 
face up so that he could press his hard lips to mine. I 
could feel the tension in his jaw. 

“How are you?” I asked as soon as he let me breathe. 

“Not so great,” he murmured. “But I’ve got a handle 
on myself. I’m sorry that I lost it back there.” 

“My fault. I should have waited to tell you.” 

“No,” he disagreed. “This is something I needed to 
know. I can’t believe I didn’t see it!” 

“You’ve got a lot on your mind.” 

“And you don’t?” 

He suddenly kissed me again, not letting me answer. 
He pulled away after just a second. “Charlie’s on his 
way.” 

“I’ll have him drop me at your house.” 

“I’ll follow you there.” 



385 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s not really necessary,” I tried to say, but he 
was already gone. 

“Bella?” Charlie called from the doorway of the 
restaurant, squinting into the darkness. 

“I’m out here.” 

Charlie sauntered out to the car, muttering about 
impatience. 

“So, how do you feel?” he asked me as we drove north 
along the highway. “It’s been a big day.” 

“I feel fine,” I lied. 

He laughed, seeing through me easily. “Worried about 
the party?” he guessed. 

“Yeah,” I lied again. 

This time he didn’t notice. “You were never one for the 
parties.” 

“Wonder where I got that from,” I murmured. 

Charlie chuckled. “Well, you look really nice. I wish 
I’d thought to get you something. Sorry.” 

“Don’t be silly, Dad.” 

“It’s not silly. I feel like I don’t always do everything 
for you that I should.” 

“That’s ridiculous. You do a fantastic job. World’s best 
dad. And ...” It wasn’t easy to talk about feelings with 
Charlie, but I persevered after clearing my throat. 

“And I’m really glad I came to live with you, Dad. It 



386 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




was the best idea I ever had. So don’t worry — you’re 
just experiencing post-graduation pessimism.” 



He snorted. “Maybe. But I’m sure I slipped up in a few 
places. I mean, look at your hand!” 

I stared down blankly at my hands. My left hand 
rested lightly on the dark brace I rarely thought 
about. My broken knuckle didn’t hurt much anymore. 

“I never thought I needed to teach you how to throw a 
punch. Guess I was wrong about that.” 

“I thought you were on Jacob’s side?” 

“No matter what side I’m on, if someone kisses you 
without your permission, you should be able to make 
your feelings clear without hurting yourself. You 
didn’t keep your thumb inside your fist, did you?” 

“No, Dad. That’s kind of sweet in a weird way, but I 
don’t think lessons would have helped. Jacob’s head 
is really hard.” 

Charlie laughed. “Hit him in the gut next time.” 

“Next time?” I asked incredulously. 

“Aw, don’t be too hard on the kid. He’s young.” 

“He’s obnoxious.” 

“He’s still your friend.” 

“I know.” I sighed. “I don’t really know what the right 
thing to do here is, Dad.” 

Charlie nodded slowly. “Yeah. The right thing isn’t 
always real obvious. Sometimes the right thing for 

387 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




one person is the wrong thing for someone else. So ... 
good luck figuring that out.” 



“Thanks,” I muttered dryly. 

Charlie laughed again, and then frowned. “If this 
party gets too wild ... ,” he began. 

“Don’t worry about it, Dad. Carlisle and Esme are 
going to be there. I’m sure you can come, too, if you 
want.” 

Charlie grimaced as he squinted through the 
windshield into the night. Charlie enjoyed a good 
party just about as much as I did. 

“Where’s the turnoff, again?” he asked. “They ought to 
clear out their drive — it’s impossible to find in the 
dark.” 

“Just around the next bend, I think.” I pursed my 
lips. “You know, you’re right — it is impossible to 
find. Alice said she put a map in the invitation, but 
even so, maybe everyone will get lost.” I cheered up 
slightly at the idea. 

“Maybe,” Charlie said as the road curved to the east. 
“Or maybe not.” 

The black velvet darkness was interrupted ahead, just 
where the Cullens’ drive should be. Someone had 
wrapped the trees on either side in thousands of 
twinkle lights, impossible to miss. 

“Alice,” I said sourly. 

“Wow,” Charlie said as we turned onto the drive. The 
two trees at the entry weren’t the only ones lit. Every 
twenty feet or so, another shining beacon guided us 

388 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




toward the big white house. All the way — all three 
miles of the way. 

“She doesn’t do things halfway, does she?” Charlie 
mumbled in awe. 

“Sure you don’t want to come in?” 

“Extremely sure. Have fun, kid.” 

“Thanks so much, Dad.” 

He was laughing to himself as I got out and shut the 
door. I watched him drive away, still grinning. With a 
sigh, I marched up the stairs to endure my party. 



389 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




ALLIANCE 



“Bella?” 

Edward’s soft voice came from behind me. I turned to 
see him spring lightly up the porch steps, his hair 
windblown from running. He pulled me into his arms 
at once, just like he had in the parking lot, and kissed 
me again. 

This kiss frightened me. There was too much tension, 
too strong an edge to the way his lips crushed mine — 
like he was afraid we only had so much time left to 
us. 



I couldn’t let myself think about that. Not if I was 
going to have to act human for the next several hours. 
I pulled away from him. 

“Let’s get this stupid party over with,” I mumbled, not 
meeting his eyes. 

He put his hands on either side of my face, waiting 
until I looked up. 

“I won’t let anything happen to you.” 

I touched his lips with the fingers of my good hand. 
“I’m not worried about myself so much.” 

“Why am I not surprised by that?” he muttered to 
himself. He took a deep breath, and then he smiled 
slightly. “Ready to celebrate?” he asked. 

I groaned. 



390 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



He held the door for me, keeping his arm securely 
around my waist. I stood frozen there for a minute, 
then I slowly shook my head. 

“Unbelievable.” 

Edward shrugged. “Alice will be Alice.” 

The interior of the Cullens’ home had been 
transformed into a nightclub — the kind that didn’t 
often exist in real life, only on TV. 

“Edward!” Alice called from beside a gigantic speaker. 
“I need your advice.” She gestured toward a towering 
stack of CDs. “Should we give them familiar and 
comforting? Or” — she gestured to a different pile — 
“educate their taste in music?” 

“Keep it comforting,” Edward recommended. “You can 
only lead the horse to water.” 

Alice nodded seriously, and started throwing the 
educational CDs into a box. I noticed that she had 
changed into a sequined tank top and red leather 
pants. Her bare skin reacted oddly to the pulsing red 
and purple lights. 

“I think I’m underdressed.” 

“You’re perfect,” Edward disagreed. 

“You’ll do,” Alice amended. 

“Thanks.” I sighed. “Do you really think people will 
come?” Anyone could hear the hope in my voice. Alice 
made a face at me. 



391 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Everyone will come,” Edward answered. “They’re all 
dying to see the inside of the reclusive Cullens’ 
mystery house.” 

“Fabulous,” I moaned. 

There wasn’t anything I could do to help. I doubted 
that — even after I didn’t need sleep and moved at a 
much faster speed — I would ever be able to get 
things done the way Alice did. 

Edward refused to let me go for a second, dragging 
me along with him as he hunted up Jasper and then 
Carlisle to tell them of my epiphany. I listened with 
quiet horror as they discussed their attack on the 
army in Seattle. I could tell that Jasper was not 
pleased with the way the numbers stood, but they’d 
been unable to contact anyone besides Tanya’s 
unwilling family. Jasper didn’t try to hide his 
desperation the way Edward would have. It was easy 
to see that he didn’t like gambling with stakes this 
high. 

I couldn’t stay behind, waiting and hoping for them to 
come home. I wouldn’t. I would go mad. 

The doorbell rang. 

All at once, everything was surreally normal. A perfect 
smile, genuine and warm, replaced the stress on 
Carlisle’s face. Alice turned the volume of the music 
up, and then danced to get the door. 

It was a Suburban-load of my friends, either too 
nervous or too intimidated to arrive on their own. 
Jessica was the first one in the door, with Mike right 
behind her. Tyler, Conner, Austin, Lee, Samantha ... 
even Lauren trailing in last, her critical eyes alight 
with curiosity. They all were curious, and then 
392 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




overwhelmed as they took in the huge room decked 
out like a chic rave. The room wasn’t empty; all the 
Cullens had taken their places, ready to put on their 
usual perfect human charade. Tonight I felt like I was 
acting every bit as much as they were. 

I went to greet Jess and Mike, hoping the edge in my 
voice sounded like the right kind of excitement. 

Before I could get to anyone else, the bell rang again. I 
let Angela and Ben in, leaving the door wide, because 
Eric and Katie were just reaching the steps. 

I didn’t get another chance to panic. I had to talk to 
everyone, concentrate on being upbeat, a hostess. 
Though the party had been billed as a joint event for 
Alice, Edward, and me, there was no denying that I 
was the most popular target for congratulations and 
thanks. Maybe because the Cullens looked just 
slightly wrong under Alice’s party lights. Maybe 
because those lights left the room dim and 
mysterious. Not an atmosphere to make your average 
human feel relaxed when standing next to someone 
like Emmett. I saw Emmett grin at Mike over the food 
table, the red lights gleaming off his teeth, and 
watched Mike take an automatic step back. 

Probably Alice had done this on purpose, to force me 
into the center of attention — a place she thought I 
should enjoy more. She was forever trying to make me 
be human the way she thought humans should be. 

The party was a clear success, despite the instinctive 
edginess cause by the Cullens’ presence — or maybe 
that simply added a thrill to the atmosphere. The 
music was infectious, the lights almost hypnotic. 

From the way the food disappeared, that must have 
been good, too. The room was soon crowded, though 
never claustrophobic. The entire senior class seemed 
to be there, along with most of the juniors. Bodies 
393 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




swayed to the beat that rumbled under the soles of 
their feet, the party constantly on the edge of 
breaking into a dance. 

It wasn’t as hard as I’d thought it would be. I followed 
Alice’s lead, mingling and chatting for a minute with 
everyone. They seemed easy enough to please. I was 
sure this party was far cooler than anything the town 
of Forks had experienced before. Alice was almost 
purring — no one here would forget this night. 

I’d circled the room once, and was back to Jessica. 

She babbled excitedly, and it was not necessary to 
pay strict attention, because the odds were she 
wouldn’t need a response from me anytime soon. 
Edward was at my side — still refusing to let go of me. 
He kept one hand securely at my waist, pulling me 
closer now and then in response to thoughts I 
probably didn’t want to hear. 

So I was immediately suspicious when he dropped his 
arm and edged away from me. 

“Stay here,” he murmured in my ear. “I’ll be right 
back.” 

He passed gracefully through the crowd without 
seeming to touch any of the close-packed bodies, gone 
too quickly for me to ask why he was leaving. I stared 
after him with narrowed eyes while Jessica shouted 
over the music eagerly, hanging on to my elbow, 
oblivious to my distraction. 

I watched him as he reached the dark shadow beside 
the kitchen doorway, where the lights only shone 
intermittently. He was leaning over someone, but I 
couldn’t see past all the heads between us. 



394 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stretched up on my toes, craning my neck. Right 
then, a red light flashed across his back and glinted 
off the red sequins of Alice’s shirt. The light only 
touched her face for half a second, but it was enough. 

“Excuse me for a minute, Jess,” I mumbled, pulling 
my arm away. I didn’t pause for her reaction, even to 
see if I’d hurt her feelings with my abruptness. 

I ducked my way through the bodies, getting shoved 
around a bit. A few people were dancing now. I 
hurried to the kitchen door. 

Edward was gone, but Alice was still there in the 
dark, her face blank — the kind of expressionless look 
you see on the face of someone who has just 
witnessed a horrible accident. One of her hands 
gripped the door frame, like she needed the support. 

“What, Alice, what? What did you see?” My hands 
were clutched in front of me — begging. 

She didn’t look at me, she was staring away. I 
followed her gaze and watched as she caught 
Edward’s eye across the room. His face was empty as 
a stone. He turned and disappeared into the shadows 
under the stair. 

The doorbell rang just then, hours after the last time, 
and Alice looked up with a puzzled expression that 
quickly turned into one of disgust. 

“Who invited the werewolf?” she griped at me. 

I scowled. “Guilty.” 

I’d thought I’d rescinded that invitation — not that I’d 
ever dreamed Jacob would come here, regardless. 



395 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, you go take care of it, then. I have to talk to 
Carlisle.” 



“No, Alice, wait!” I tried to reach for her arm, but she 
was gone and my hand clutched the empty air. 

“Damn it!” I grumbled. 

I knew this was it. Alice had seen what she’d been 
waiting for, and I honestly didn’t feel I could stand the 
suspense long enough to answer the door. The 
doorbell peeled again, too long, someone holding 
down the button. I turned my back toward the door 
resolutely, and scanned the darkened room for Alice. 

I couldn’t see anything. I started pushing for the 
stairs. 

“Hey, Bella!” 

Jacob’s deep voice caught a lull in the music, and I 
looked up in spite of myself at the sound of my name. 

I made a face. 

It wasn’t just one werewolf, it was three. Jacob had let 
himself in, flanked on either side by Quil and Embry. 
The two of them looked terribly tense, their eyes 
flickering around the room like they’d just walked into 
a haunted crypt. Embry’s trembling hand still held 
the door, his body half-turned to run for it. 

Jacob was waving at me, calmer than the others, 
though his nose was wrinkled in disgust. I waved 
back — waved goodbye — and turned to look for 
Alice. I squeezed through a space between Conner’s 
and Lauren’s backs. 



396 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He came out of nowhere, his hand on my shoulder 
pulling me back toward the shadow by the kitchen. I 
ducked under his grip, but he grabbed my good wrist 
and yanked me from the crowd. 

“Friendly reception,” he noted. 

I pulled my hand free and scowled at him. “What are 
you doing here?” 

“You invited me, remember?” 

“In case my right hook was too subtle for you, let me 
translate: that was me uninviting you.” 

“Don’t be a poor sport. I brought you a graduation 
present and everything.” 

I folded my arms across my chest. I didn’t want to 
fight with Jacob right now. I wanted to know what 
Alice had seen and what Edward and Carlisle were 
saying about it. I craned my head around Jacob, 
searching for them. 

“Take it back to the store, Jake. I’ve got to do 
something... .” 

He stepped into my line of sight, demanding my 
attention. 

“I can’t take it back. I didn’t get it from the store — I 
made it myself. Took a really long time, too.” 

I leaned around him again, but I couldn’t see any of 
the Cullens. Where had they gone? My eyes scanned 
the darkened room. 

“Oh, c’mon, Bell. Don’t pretend like I’m not here!” 



397 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm not.” I couldn’t see them anywhere. “Look, Jake, 
I’ve got a lot on my mind right now.” 

He put his hand under my chin and pulled my face 
up. “Could I please have just a few seconds of your 
undivided attention, Miss Swan?” 

I jerked away from his touch. “Keep your hands to 
yourself, Jacob,” I hissed. 

“Sorry!” he said at once, holding his hands up in 
surrender. “I really am sorry. About the other day, I 
mean, too. I shouldn’t have kissed you like that. It 
was wrong. I guess ... well, I guess I deluded myself 
into thinking you wanted me to.” 

“Deluded — what a perfect description!” 

“Be nice. You could accept my apology, you know.” 

“Fine. Apology accepted. Now, if you’ll just excuse me 
for a moment ...” 

“Okay,” he mumbled, and his voice was so different 
from before that I stoppd searching for Alice and 
scrutinized his face. He was staring at the floor, 
hiding his eyes. His lower lip jutted out just a little 
bit. 

“I guess you’d rather be with your real friends,” he 
said in the same defeated tone. “I get it.” 

I groaned. “Aw, Jake, you know that’s not fair.” 

“Do I?” 

“You should.” I leaned forward, peering up, trying to 
look into his eyes. He looked up then, over my head, 
avoiding my gaze. 

398 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jake?” 



He refused to look at me. 

“Hey, you said you made me something, right?” I 
asked. “Was that just talk? Where’s my present?” My 
attempt to fake enthusiasm was pretty sad, but it 
worked. He rolled his eyes and then grimaced at me. 

I kept up the lame pretense, holding my hand open in 
front of me. “I’m waiting.” 

“Right,” he grumbled sarcastically. But he also 
reached into the back pocket of his jeans and pulled 
out a small bag of a loose-woven, multi-colored fabric. 
It was tied shut with leather drawstrings. He set it on 
my palm. 

“Hey, that’s pretty, Jake. Thanks!” 

He sighed. “The present is inside, Bella.” 

“Oh.” 

I had some trouble with the strings. He sighed again 
and took it from me, sliding the ties open with one 
easy tug of the right cord. I held my hand out for it, 
but he turned the bag upside down and shook 
something silver into my hand. Metal links clinked 
quietly against each other. 

“I didn’t make the bracelet,” he admitted. “Just the 
charm.” 

Fastened to one of the links of the silver bracelet was 
a tiny wooden carving. I held it between my fingers to 
look at it closer. It was amazing the amount of detail 
involved in the little figurine — the miniature wolf was 



399 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




utterly realistic. It was even carved out of some red- 
brown wood that matched the color of his skin. 

“It’s beautiful,” I whispered. “You made this? How?” 

He shrugged. “It’s something Billy taught me. He’s 
better at it than I am.” 

“That’s hard to believe,” I murmured, turning the tiny 
wolf around and around in my fingers. 

“Do you really like it?” 

“Yes! It’s unbelievable, Jake.” 

He smiled, happily at first, but then the expression 
soured. “Well, I figured that maybe it would make you 
remember me once in a while. You know how it is, out 
of sight, out of mind.” 

I ignored the attitude. “Here, help me put it on.” 

I held out my left wrist, since the right was stuck in 
the brace. He fastened the catch easily, though it 
looked too delicate for his big fingers to manage. 

“You’ll wear it?” he asked. 

“Of course I will.” 

He grinned at me — it was the happy smile that I 
loved to see him wear. 

I returned it for a moment, but then my eyes shot 
reflexively around the room again, anxiously scanning 
the crowd for some sign of Edward or Alice. 

“Why ’re you so distracted?” Jacob wondered. 



400 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s nothing,” I lied, trying to concentrate. “Thanks for 
the present, really. I love it.” 



“Bella?” His brows pulled together, throwing his eyes 
deep into their shadow. “Something’s going on, isn’t 



it?” 



“Jake, I ... no, there’s nothing.” 

“Don’t lie to me, you suck at lying. You should tell me 
what’s going on. We want to know these things,” he 
said, slipping into the plural at the end. 

He was probably right; the wolves would certainly be 
interested in what was happening. Only I wasn’t sure 
what that was yet. I wouldn’t know for sure until I 
found Alice. 

“Jacob, I will tell you. Just let me figure out what’s 
happening, okay? I need to talk to Alice.” 

Understanding lit his expression. “The psychic saw 
something.” 

“Yes, just when you showed up.” 

“Is this about the bloodsucker in your room?” he 
murmured, pitching his voice below the thrum of the 
music. 

“It’s related,” I admitted. 

He processed that for a minute, leaning his head to 
one side while he read my face. “You know something 
you’re not telling me ... something big.” 

What was the point in lying again? He knew me too 
well. “Yes.” 



401 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob stared at me for one short moment, and then 
turned to catch his pack brothers’ eyes where they 
stood in the entry, awkward and uncomfortable. 

When they took in his expression, they started 
moving, weaving their way agilely through the 
partiers, almost like they were dancing, too. In half a 
minute, they stood on either side of Jacob, towering 
over me. 

“Now. Explain,” Jacob demanded. 

Embry and Quil looked back and forth between our 
faces, confused and wary. 

“Jacob, I don’t know everything.” I kept searching the 
room, now for a rescue. They had me backed into a 
corner in every sense. 

“What you do know, then.” 

They all folded their arms across their chests at 
exactly the same moment. It was a little bit funny, but 
mostly menacing. 

And then I caught sight of Alice descending the stairs, 
her white skin glowing in the purple light. 

“Alice!” I squeaked in relief. 

She looked right at me as soon as I called her name, 
despite the thudding bass that should have drowned 
my voice. I waved eagerly, and watched her face as 
she took in the three werewolves leaning over me. Her 
eyes narrowed. 

But, before that reaction, her face was full of stress 
and fear. I bit my lip as she skipped to my side. 



402 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob, Quil, and Embry all leaned away from her with 
uneasy expressions. She put her arm around my 
waist. 

“I need to talk to you,” she murmured into my ear. 

“Er, Jake, I’ll see you later ... ,” I mumbled as we 
eased around them. 

Jacob threw his long arm out to block our way, 
bracing his hand against the wall. “Hey, not so fast.” 

Alice stared up at him, eyes wide and incredulous. 
“Excuse me?” 

“Tell us what’s going on,” he demanded in a growl. 

Jasper appeared quite literally out of nowhere. One 
second it was just Alice and me against the wall, 
Jacob blocking our exit, and then Jasper was 
standing on the other side of Jake’s arm, his 
expression terrifying. 

Jacob slowly pulled his arm back. It seemed like the 
best move, going with the assumption that he wanted 
to keep that arm. 

“We have a right to know,” Jacob muttered, still 
glaring at Alice. 

Jasper stepped in between them, and the three 
werewolves braced themselves. 

“Hey, hey,” I said, adding a slightly hysterical 
chuckle. “This is a party, remember?” 

Nobody paid any attention to me. Jacob glared at 
Alice while Jasper glowered at Jacob. Alice’s face was 
suddenly thoughtful. 

403 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s okay, Jasper. He actually has a point.” 

Jasper did not relax his position. 

I was sure the suspense was going to make my head 
explode in about one second. “What did you see, 
Alice?” 

She stared at Jacob for one second, and then turned 
to me, evidently having chosen to let them hear. 

“The decision’s been made.” 

“You’re going to Seattle?” 

“No.” 

I felt the color drain out of my face. My stomach 
lurched. “They’re coming here,” I choked out. 

The Quileute boys watched silently, reading every 
unconscious play of emotion on our faces. They were 
rooted in place, and yet not completely still. All three 
pairs of hands were trembling. 

“Yes.” 

“To Forks,” I whispered. 

“Yes.” 

“For?” 

She nodded, understanding my question. “One 
carried your red shirt.” 

I tried to swallow. 



404 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper’s expression was disapproving. I could tell he 
didn’t like discussing this in front of the werewolves, 
but he had something he needed to say. “We can’t let 
them come that far. There aren’t enough of us to 
protect the town.” 

“I know,” Alice said, her face suddenly desolate. “But 
it doesn’t matter where we stop them. There still won’t 
be enough of us, and some of them will come here to 
search.” 

“No!” I whispered. 

The noise of the party overwhelmed the sound of my 
denial. All around us, my friends and neighbors and 
petty enemies ate and laughed and swayed to the 
music, oblivious to the fact that they were about to 
face horror, danger, maybe death. Because of me. 

“Alice,” I mouthed her name. “I have to go, I have to 
get away from here.” 

“That won’t help. It’s not like we’re dealing with a 
tracker. They’ll still come looking here first.” 

“Then I have to go to meet them!” If my voice hadn’t 
been so hoarse and strained, it might have been a 
shriek. “If they find what they’re looking for, maybe 
they’ll go away and not hurt anyone else!” 

“Bella!” Alice protested. 

“Hold it,” Jacob ordered in a low, forceful voice. “What 
is coming?” 

Alice turned her icy gaze on him. “Our kind. Lots of 
them.” 

“Why?” 

405 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“For Bella. That’s all we know.” 



“There are too many for you?” he asked. 

Jasper bridled. “We have a few advantages, dog. It will 
be an even fight.” 

“No,” Jacob said, and a strange, fierce half-smile 
spread across his face. “It won’t be even.” 

“Excellent!” Alice hissed. 

I stared, still frozen in horror, at Alice’s new 
expression. Her face was alive with exultation, all the 
despair wiped clean from her perfect features. 

She grinned at Jacob, and he grinned back. 

“Everything just disappeared, of course,” she told him 
in a smug voice. “That’s inconvenient, but, all things 
considered, I’ll take it.” 

“Well have to coordinate,” Jacob said. “It won’t be 
easy for us. Still, this is our job more than yours.” 

“I wouldn’t go that far, but we need the help. We 
aren’t going to be picky.” 

“Wait, wait, wait, wait,” I interrupted them. 

Alice was on her toes, Jacob leaning down toward 
her, both of their faces lit up with excitement, both of 
their noses wrinkled against the smell. They looked at 
me impatiently. 

“Coordinate?” I repeated through my teeth. 

“You didn’t honestly think you were going to keep us 
out of this?” Jacob asked. 

406 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You are staying out of this!” 

“Your psychic doesn’t think so.” 

“Alice — tell them no!” I insisted. “They’ll get killed!” 

Jacob, Quil, and Embry all laughed out loud. 

“Bella,” Alice said, her voice soothing, placating, 
“separately we all could get killed. Together — ” 

“It’ll be no problem,” Jacob finished her sentence. 

Quil laughed again. 

“How many?” Quil asked eagerly. 

“No!” I shouted. 

Alice didn’t even look at me. “It changes — twenty-one 
today, but the numbers are going down.” 

“Why?” Jacob asked, curious. 

“Long story,” Alice said, suddenly looking around the 
room. “And this isn’t the place for it.” 

“Later tonight?” Jacob pushed. 

“Yes,” Jasper answered him. “We were already 
planning a ... strategic meeting. If you’re going to fight 
with us, you’ll need some instruction.” 

The wolves all made a disgruntled face at the last 
part. 

“No!” I moaned. 

“This will be odd,” Jasper said thoughtfully. “I never 
considered working together. This has to be a first.” 

407 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“No doubt about that,” Jacob agreed. He was in a 
hurry now. “We’ve got to get back to Sam. What 
time?” 

“What’s too late for you?” 

All three rolled their eyes. “What time?” Jacob 
repeated. 

“Three o’clock?” 

“Where?” 

“About ten miles due north of the Hoh Forest ranger 
station. Come at it from the west and you’ll be able to 
follow our scent in.” 

“Well be there.” 

They turned to leave. 

“Wait, Jake!” I called after him. “Please! Don’t do 
this!” 

He paused, turning back to grin at me, while Quil and 
Embry headed impatiently for the door. “Don’t be 
ridiculous, Bells. You’re giving me a much better gift 
than the one I gave you.” 

“No!” I shouted again. The sound of an electric guitar 
drowned my cry. 

He didn’t respond; he hurried to catch up with his 
friends, who were already gone. I watched helplessly 
as Jacob disappeared. 



408 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




INSTRUCTION 




“That had to be the longest party in the history of the 
world,” I complained on the way home. 

Edward didn’t seem to disagree. “It’s over now,” he 
said, rubbing my arm soothingly. 

Because I was the only one who needed soothing. 
Edward was fine now — all the Cullens were fine. 

They’d all reassured me; Alice reaching up to pat my 
head as I left, eyeing Jasper meaningfully until a flood 
of peace swirled around me, Esme kissing my 
forehead and promising me everything was all right, 
Emmett laughing boisterously and asking why I was 
the only one who was allowed to fight with 
werewolves... . Jacob’s solution had them all relaxed, 
almost euphoric after the long weeks of stress. Doubt 
had been replaced with confidence. The party had 
ended on a note of true celebration. 

Not for me. 

Bad enough — horrible — that the Cullens would 
fight for me. It was already too much that I would 
have to allow that. It already felt like more than I 
could bear. 

Not Jacob, too. Not his foolish, eager brothers — most 
of them even younger than I was. They were just 
oversized, over-muscled children, and they looked 
forward to this like it was picnic on the beach. I could 
not have them in danger, too. My nerves felt frayed 
and exposed. I didn’t know how much longer I could 
restrain the urge to scream out loud. 

409 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



I whispered now, to keep my voice under control. 
“You’re taking me with you tonight.” 



“Bella, you’re worn out.” 

“You think I could sleep?” 

He frowned. “This is an experiment. I’m not sure if it 
will be possible for us all to ... cooperate. I don’t want 
you in the middle of that.” 

As if that didn’t make me all the more anxious to go. 
“If you won’t take me, then I’ll call Jacob.” 

His eyes tightened. That was a low blow, and I knew 
it. But there was no way I was being left behind. 

He didn’t answer; we were at Charlie’s house now. 

The front light was on. 

“See you upstairs,” I muttered. 

I tiptoed in the front door. Charlie was asleep in the 
living room, overflowing the too-small sofa, and 
snoring so loudly I could have ripped a chainsaw to 
life and it wouldn’t have wakened him. 

I shook his shoulder vigorously. 

“Dad! Charlie!” 

He grumbled, eyes still closed. 

“I’m home now — you’re going to hurt your back 
sleeping like that. C’mon, time to move.” 

It took a few more shakes, and his eyes never did 
open all the way, but I managed to get him off the 
couch. I helped him up to his bed, where he collapsed 

410 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




on top of the covers, fully dressed, and started 
snoring again. 



He wasn’t going to be looking for me anytime soon. 

Edward waited in my room while I washed my face 
and changed into jeans and a flannel shirt. He 
watched me unhappily from the rocking chair as I 
hung the outfit Alice had given me in my closet. 

“Come here,” I said, taking his hand and pulling him 
to my bed. 

I pushed him down on the bed and then curled up 
against his chest. Maybe he was right and I was tired 
enough to sleep. I wasn’t going to let him sneak off 
without me. 

He tucked my quilt in around me, and then held me 
close. 

“Please relax.” 

“Sure.” 

“This is going to work, Bella. I can feel it.” 

My teeth locked together. 

He was still radiating relief. Nobody but me cared if 
Jacob and his friends got hurt. Not even Jacob and 
his friends. Especially not them. 

He could tell I was about to lose it. “Listen to me, 

Bella. This is going to be easy. The newborns will be 
completely taken by surprise. They’ll have no more 
idea that werewolves even exist than you did. I’ve 
seen how they act in a group, the way Jasper 
remembers. I truly believe that the wolves’ hunting 
411 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




techniques will work flawlessly against them. And 
with them divided and confused, there won’t be 
enough for the rest of us to do. Someone may have to 
sit out,” he teased. 

“Piece of cake,” I mumbled tonelessly against his 
chest. 

“Shhh,” he stroked my cheek. “You’ll see. Don’t worry 
now.” 

He started humming my lullaby, but, for once, it 
didn’t calm me. 

People — well, vampires and werewolves really, but 
still — people I loved were going to get hurt. Hurt 
because of me. Again. I wished my bad luck would 
focus a little more carefully. I felt like yelling up at the 
empty sky: It’s me you want — over here! Just me! 

I tried to think of a way that I could do exactly that — 
force my bad luck to focus on me. It wouldn’t be easy. 

I would have to wait, bide my time... . 

I did not fall asleep. The minutes passed quickly, to 
my surprise, and I was still alert and tense when 
Edward pulled us both up into a sitting position. 

“Are you sure you don’t want to stay and sleep?” 

I gave him a sour look. 

He sighed, and scooped me up in his arms before he 
jumped from my window. 

He raced through the black, quiet forest with me on 
his back, and even in his run I could feel the elation. 
He ran the way he did when it was just us, just for 
enjoyment, just for the feel of the wind in his hair. It 

412 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




was the kind of thing that, during less anxious times, 
would have made me happy. 



When we got to the big open field, his family was 
there, talking casually, relaxed. Emmett’s booming 
laugh echoed through the wide space now and then. 
Edward set me down and we walked hand in hand 
toward them. 

It took me a minute, because it was so dark with the 
moon hidden behind the clouds, but I realized that we 
were in the baseball clearing. It was the same place 
where, more than a year ago, that first lighthearted 
evening with the Cullens had been interrupted by 
James and his coven. It felt strange to be here again 
— as if this gathering wouldn’t be complete until 
James and Laurent and Victoria joined us. But James 
and Laurent were never coming back. That pattern 
wouldn’t be repeated. Maybe all the patterns were 
broken. 

Yes, someone had broken out of their pattern. Was it 
possible that the Volturi were the flexible ones in this 
equation? 

I doubted it. 

Victoria had always seemed like a force of nature to 
me — like a hurricane moving toward the coast in a 
straight line — unavoidable, implacable, but 
predictable. Maybe it was wrong to limit her that way. 
She had to be capable of adaptation. 

“You know what I think?” I asked Edward. 

He laughed. “No.” 

I almost smiled. 



413 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What do you think?” 



“I think it’s all connected. Not just the two, but all 
three.” 

“You’ve lost me.” 

“Three bad things have happened since you came 
back.” I ticked them off on my fingers. “The newborns 
in Seattle. The stranger in my room. And — first of all 
— Victoria came to look for me.” 

His eyes narrowed as he thought about it. “Why do 
you think so?” 

“Because I agree with Jasper — the Volturi love their 
rules. They would probably do a better job anyway.” 
And I’d be dead if they wanted me dead, I added 
mentally. “Remember when you were tracking Victoria 
last year?” 

“Yes.” He frowned. “I wasn’t very good at it.” 

“Alice said you were in Texas. Did you follow her 
there?” 

His eyebrows pulled together. “Yes. Hmm ...” 

“See — she could have gotten the idea there. But she 
doesn’t know what she’s doing, so the newborns are 
all out of control.” 

He started shaking his head. “Only Aro knows exactly 
how Alice’s visions work.” 

“Aro would know best, but wouldn’t Tanya and Irina 
and the rest of your friends in Denali know enough? 
Laurent lived with them for so long. And if he was still 
friendly enough with Victoria to be doing favors for 

414 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




her, why wouldn’t he also tell her everything he 
knew?” 

Edward frowned. “It wasn’t Victoria in your room.” 

“She can’t make new friends? Think about it, Edward. 
If it is Victoria doing this in Seattle, she’s made a lot 
of new friends. She’s created them.” 

He considered it, his forehead creased in 
concentration. 

“Hmm,” he finally said. “It’s possible. I still think the 
Volturi are most likely ... But your theory — there’s 
something there. Victoria’s personality. Your theory 
suits her personality perfectly. She’s shown a 
remarkable gift for self-preservation from the start — 
maybe it’s a talent of hers. In any case, this plot 
would put her in no danger at all from us, if she sits 
safely behind and lets the newborns wreak their 
havoc here. And maybe little danger from the Volturi, 
either. Perhaps she’s counting on us to win, in the 
end, though certainly not without heavy casualties of 
our own. But no survivors from her little army to bear 
witness against her. In fact,” he continued, thinking it 
through, “if there were survivors, I’d bet she’d be 
planning to destroy them herself... . Hmm. Still, she’d 
have to have at least one friend who was a bit more 
mature. No fresh-made newborn left your father 
alive... .” 

He frowned into space for a long moment, and then 
suddenly smiled at me, coming back from his reverie. 
“Definitely possible. Regardless, we’ve got to be 
prepared for anything until we know for sure. You’re 
very perceptive today,” he added. “It’s impressive.” 



415 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I sighed. “Maybe I’m just reacting to this place. It 
makes me feel like she’s close by ... like she sees me 
now.” 

His jaw muscles tensed at the idea. “She’ll never 
touch you, Bella,” he said. 

In spite of his words, his eyes swept carefully across 
the dark trees. While he searched their shadows, the 
strangest expression crossed his face. His lips pulled 
back over his teeth and his eyes shone with an odd 
light — a wild, fierce kind of hope. 

“Yet, what I wouldn’t give to have her that close,” he 
murmured. “Victoria, and anyone else who’s ever 
thought of hurting you. To have the chance to end 
this myself. To finish it with my own hands this time.” 

I shuddered at the ferocious longing in his voice, and 
clenched his fingers more tightly with mine, wishing I 
was strong enough to lock our hands together 
permanently. 

We were almost to his family, and I noticed for the 
first time that Alice did not look as optimistic as the 
others. She stood a little aside, watching Jasper 
stretching his arms as if he were warming up to 
exercise, her lips pushed out in a pout. 

“Is something wrong with Alice?” I whispered. 

Edward chuckled, himself again. “The werewolves are 
on their way, so she can’t see anything that will 
happen now. It makes her uncomfortable to be blind.” 

Alice, though the farthest from us, heard his low 
voice. She looked up and stuck her tongue out at 
him. He laughed again. 



416 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hey, Edward,” Emmett greeted him. “Hey, Bella. Is 
he going to let you practice, too?” 

Edward groaned at his brother. “Please, Emmett, 
don’t give her any ideas.” 

“When will our guests arrive?” Carlisle asked Edward. 

Edward concentrated for a moment, and then sighed. 
“A minute and a half. But I’m going to have to 
translate. They don’t trust us enough to use their 
human forms.” 

Carlisle nodded. “This is hard for them. I’m grateful 
they’re coming at all.” 

I stared at Edward, my eyes stretched wide. “They’re 
coming as wolves?” 

He nodded, cautious of my reaction. I swallowed once, 
remembering the two times I’d seen Jacob in his wolf 
form — the first time in the meadow with Laurent, the 
second time on the forest lane where Paul had gotten 
angry at me... . They were both memories of terror. 

A strange gleam came into Edward’s eyes, as though 
something had just occurred to him, something that 
was not altogether unpleasant. He turned away 
quickly, before I could see any more, back to Carlisle 
and the others. 

“Prepare yourselves — they’ve been holding out on 
us.” 



“What do you mean?” Alice demanded. 

“Shh,” he cautioned, and stared past her into the 
darkness. 



417 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The Cullens’ informal circle suddenly widened out 
into a loose line with Jasper and Emmett at the spear 
point. From the way Edward leaned forward next to 
me, I could tell that he wished he was standing beside 
them. I tightened my hand around his. 

I squinted toward the forest, seeing nothing. 

“Damn,” Emmett muttered under his breath. “Did you 
ever see anything like it?” 

Esme and Rosalie exchanged a wide-eyed glance. 

“What is it?” I whispered as quietly as I could. “I can’t 
see.” 

“The pack has grown,” Edward murmured into my 
ear. 

Hadn’t I told him that Quil had joined the pack? I 
strained to see the six wolves in the gloom. Finally, 
something glittered in the blackness — their eyes, 
higher up than they should be. I’d forgotten how very 
tall the wolves were. Like horses, only thick with 
muscle and fur — and teeth like knives, impossible to 
overlook. 

I could only see the eyes. And as I scanned, straining 
to see more, it occurred to me that there were more 
than six pairs facing us. One, two, three ... I counted 
the pairs swiftly in my head. Twice. 

There were ten of them. 

“Fascinating,” Edward murmured almost silently. 

Carlisle took a slow, deliberate step forward. It was a 
careful movement, designed to reassure. 



418 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Welcome,” he greeted the invisible wolves. 



“Thank you,” Edward responded in a strange, flat 
tone, and I realized at once that the words came from 
Sam. I looked to the eyes shining in the center of the 
line, the highest up, the tallest of them all. It was 
impossible to separate the shape of the big black wolf 
from the darkness. 

Edward spoke again in the same detached voice, 
speaking Sam’s words. “We will watch and listen, but 
no more. That is the most we can ask of our self- 
control.” 

“That is more than enough,” Carlisle answered. “My 
son Jasper” — he gestured to where Jasper stood, 
tensed and ready — “has experience in this area. He 
will teach us how they fight, how they are to be 
defeated. I’m sure you can apply this to your own 
hunting style.” 

“They are different from you?” Edward asked for Sam. 

Carlisle nodded. “They are all very new — only 
months old to this life. Children, in a way. They will 
have no skill or strategy, only brute strength. Tonight 
their numbers stand at twenty. Ten for us, ten for you 
— it shouldn’t be difficult. The numbers may go 
down. The new ones fight amongst themselves.” 

A rumble passed down the shadowy line of wolves, a 
low growling mutter that somehow managed to sound 
enthusiastic. 

“We are willing to take more than our share, if 
necessary,” Edward translated, his tone less 
indifferent now. 

Carlisle smiled. “We’ll see how it plays out.” 

419 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Do you know when and how they’ll arrive?” 

“They’ll come across the mountains in four days, in 
the late morning. As they approach, Alice will help us 
intercept their path.” 

“Thank you for the information. We will watch.” 

With a sighing sound, the eyes sank closer to the 
ground one set at a time. 

It was silent for two heartbeats, and then Jasper took 
a step into the empty space between the vampires 
and the wolves. It wasn’t hard for me to see him — 
his skin was as bright against the darkness as the 
wolves’ eyes. Jasper threw a wary glance toward 
Edward, who nodded, and then Jasper turned his 
back to the werewolves. He sighed, clearly 
uncomfortable . 

“Carlisle’s right.” Jasper spoke only to us; he seemed 
to be trying to ignore the audience behind him. 
“They’ll fight like children. The two most important 
things you’ll need to remember are, first, don’t let 
them get their arms around you and, second, don’t go 
for the obvious kill. That’s all they’ll be prepared for. 
As long as you come at them from the side and keep 
moving, they’ll be too confused to respond effectively. 
Emmett?” 

Emmett stepped out of the line with a huge smile. 

Jasper backed toward the north end of the opening 
between the allied enemies. He waved Emmett 
forward. 

“Okay, Emmett first. He’s the best example of a 
newborn attack.” 



420 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Emmett’s eyes narrowed. “I’ll try not to break 
anything,” he muttered. 

Jasper grinned. “What I meant is that Emmett relies 
on his strength. He’s very straightforward about the 
attack. The newborns won’t be trying anything subtle, 
either. Just go for the easy kill, Emmett.” 

Jasper backed up a few more paces, his body tensing. 

“Okay, Emmett — try to catch me.” 

And I couldn’t see Jasper anymore — he was a blur 
as Emmett charged him like a bear, grinning while he 
snarled. Emmett was impossibly quick, too, but not 
like Jasper. It looked like Jasper had no more 
substance than a ghost — any time it seemed 
Emmett’s big hands had him for sure, Emmett’s 
fingers clenched around nothing but the air. Beside 
me, Edward leaned forward intently, his eyes locked 
on the brawl. Then Emmett froze. 

Jasper had him from behind, his teeth an inch from 
his throat. 

Emmett cussed. 

There was a muttered rumble of appreciation from the 
watching wolves. 

“Again,” Emmett insisted, his smile gone. 

“It’s my turn,” Edward protested. My fingers tensed 
around his. 

“In a minute.” Jasper grinned, stepping back. “I want 
to show Bella something first.” 



421 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I watched with anxious eyes as he waved Alice 
forward. 



“I know you worry about her,” he explained to me as 
she danced blithely into the ring. “I want to show you 
why that’s not necessary.” 

Though I knew that Jasper would never allow any 
harm to come to Alice, it was still hard to watch as he 
sank back into a crouch facing her. Alice stood 
motionlessly, looking tiny as a doll after Emmett, 
smiling to herself. Jasper shifted forward, then 
slinked to her left. 

Alice closed her eyes. 

My heart thumped unevenly as Jasper stalked toward 
where Alice stood. 

Jasper sprang, disappearing. Suddenly he was on the 
other side of Alice. She didn’t appear to have moved. 

Jasper wheeled and launched himself at her again, 
only to land in a crouch behind her like the first time; 
all the while Alice stood smiling with her eyes closed. 

I watched Alice more carefully now. 

She was moving — I’d just been missing it, distracted 
by Jasper’s attacks. She took a small step forward at 
the exact second that Jasper’s body flew through the 
spot where she’d just been standing. She took 
another step, while Jasper’s grasping hands whistled 
past where her waist had been. 

Jasper closed in, and Alice began to move faster. She 
was dancing — spiraling and twisting and curling in 
on herself. Jasper was her partner, lunging, reaching 
through her graceful patterns, never touching her, 

422 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




like every movement was choreographed. Finally, 
Alice laughed. 



Out of nowhere she was perched on Jasper’s back, 
her lips at his neck. 

“Gotcha,” she said, and kissed his throat. 

Jasper chuckled, shaking his head. “You truly are one 
frightening little monster.” 

The wolves muttered again. This time the sound was 
wary. 

“It’s good for them to learn some respect,” Edward 
murmured, amused. Then he spoke louder. “My 
turn.” 

He squeezed my hand before he let it go. 

Alice came to take his place beside me. “Cool, huh?” 
she asked me smugly. 

“Very,” I agreed, not looking away from Edward as he 
glided noiselessly toward Jasper, his movements lithe 
and watchful as a jungle cat. 

“I’ve got my eye on you, Bella,” she whispered 
suddenly, her voice pitched so low that I could barely 
hear, though her lips were at my ear. 

My gaze flickered to her face and then back to 
Edward. He was intent on Jasper, both of them 
feinting as he closed the distance. 

Alice’s expression was full of reproach. 

“I’ll warn him if your plans get any more defined,” she 
threatened in the same low murmur. “It doesn’t help 

423 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




anything for you to put yourself in danger. Do you 
think either of them would give up if you died? They’d 
still fight, we all would. You can’t change anything, so 
just be good, okay?” 

I grimaced, trying to ignore her. 

“I’m watching,” she repeated. 

Edward had closed on Jasper now, and this fight was 
more even than either of the others. Jasper had the 
century of experience to guide him, and he tried to go 
on instinct alone as much as he could, but his 
thoughts always gave him away a fraction of a second 
before he acted. Edward was slightly faster, but the 
moves Jasper used were unfamiliar to him. They 
came at each other again and again, neither one able 
to gain the advantage, instinctive snarls erupting 
constantly. It was hard to watch, but harder to look 
away. They moved too fast for me to really understand 
what they were doing. Now and then the sharp eyes of 
the wolves would catch my attention. I had a feeling 
the wolves were getting more out of this than I was — 
maybe more than they should. 

Eventually, Carlisle cleared his throat. 

Jasper laughed, and took a step back. Edward 
straightened up and grinned at him. 

“Back to work,” Jasper consented. “We’ll call it a 
draw.” 

Everyone took turns, Carlisle, then Rosalie, Esme, 
and Emmett again. I squinted through my lashes, 
cringing as Jasper attacked Esme. That one was the 
hardest to watch. Then he slowed down, still not quite 
enough for me to understand his motions, and gave 
more instruction. 

424 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You see what I’m doing here?” he would ask. “Yes, 
just like that,” he encouraged. “Concentrate on the 
sides. Don’t forget where their target will be. Keep 
moving.” 

Edward was always focused, watching and also 
listening to what others couldn’t see. 

It got more difficult to follow as my eyes got heavier. I 
hadn’t been sleeping well lately, anyway, and it was 
approaching a solid twenty-four hours since the last 
time I’d slept. I leaned against Edward’s side, and let 
my eyelids droop. 

“We’re about finished,” he whispered. 

Jasper confirmed that, turning toward the wolves for 
the first time, his expression uncomfortable again. 
“Well be doing this tomorrow. Please feel welcome to 
observe again.” 

“Yes,” Edward answered in Sam’s cool voice. “We’ll be 
here.” 

Then Edward sighed, patted my arm, and stepped 
away from me. He turned to his family. 

“The pack thinks it would be helpful to be familiar 
with each of our scents — so they don’t make 
mistakes later. If we could hold very still, it will make 
it easier for them.” 

“Certainly,” Carlisle said to Sam. “Whatever you 
need.” 

There was a gloomy, throaty grumble from the wolf 
pack as they all rose to their feet. 



My eyes were wide again, exhaustion forgotten. 

425 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The deep black of the night was just beginning to fade 
— the sun brightening the clouds, though it hadn’t 
cleared the horizon yet, far away on the other side of 
the mountains. As they approached, it was suddenly 
possible to make out shapes ... colors. 

Sam was in the lead, of course. Unbelievably huge, 
black as midnight, a monster straight out of my 
nightmares — literally; after the first time I’d seen 
Sam and the others in the meadow, they’d starred in 
my bad dreams more than once. 

Now that I could see them all, match the vastness 
with each pair of eyes, it looked like more than ten. 
The pack was overwhelming. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I saw that Edward was 
watching me, carefully evaluating my reaction. 

Sam approached Carlisle where he stood in the front, 
the huge pack right on his tail. Jasper stiffened, but 
Emmett, on the other side of Carlisle, was grinning 
and relaxed. 

Sam sniffed at Carlisle, seeming to wince slightly as 
he did. Then he moved on to Jasper. 

My eyes ran down the wary brace of wolves. I was 
sure I could pick out a few of the new additions. 

There was a light gray wolf that was much smaller 
than the others, the hackles on the back of his neck 
raised in distaste. There was another, the color of 
desert sand, who seemed gangly and uncoordinated 
beside the rest. A low whine broke through the sandy 
wolf’s control when Sam’s advance left him isolated 
between Carlisle and Jasper. 

I stopped at the wolf just behind Sam. His fur was 
reddish-brown and longer than the others, shaggy in 

426 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




comparison. He was almost as tall as Sam, the 
second largest in the group. His stance was casual, 
somehow exuding nonchalance over what the rest 
obviously considered an ordeal. 

The enormous russet-colored wolf seemed to feel my 
gaze, and he looked up at me with familiar black eyes. 

I stared back at him, trying to believe what I already 
knew. I could feel the wonder and fascination on my 
face. 

The wolfs muzzle fell open, pulling back over his 
teeth. It would have been a frightening expression, 
except that his tongue lolled out the side in a wolfy 
grin. 

I giggled. 

Jacob’s grin widened over his sharp teeth. He left his 
place in line, ignoring the eyes of his pack as they 
followed him. He trotted past Edward and Alice to 
stand not two feet away from me. He stopped there, 
his gaze flickering briefly toward Edward. 

Edward stood motionless, a statue, his eyes still 
assessing my reaction. 

Jacob crouched down on his front legs and dropped 
his head so that his face was no higher than mine, 
staring at me, measuring my response just as much 
as Edward was. 

“Jacob?” I breathed. 

The answering rumble deep in his chest sounded like 
a chuckle. 



427 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I reached my hand out, my fingers trembling slightly, 
and touched the red-brown fur on the side of his face. 

The black eyes closed, and Jacob leaned his huge 
head into my hand. A thrumming hum resonated in 
this throat. 

The fur was both soft and rough, and warm against 
my skin. I ran my fingers through it curiously, 
learning the texture, stroking his neck where the 
color deepened. I hadn’t realized how close I’d gotten; 
without warning, Jacob suddenly licked my face from 
chin to hairline. 

“Ew! Gross, Jake!” I complained, jumping back and 
smacking at him, just as I would have if he were 
human. He dodged out of the way, and the coughing 
bark that came through his teeth was obviously 
laughter. 

I wiped my face on the sleeve of my shirt, unable to 
keep from laughing with him. 

It was at that point that I realized that everyone was 
watching us, the Cullens and the werewolves — the 
Cullens with perplexed and somewhat disgusted 
expressions. It was hard to read the wolves’ faces. I 
thought Sam looked unhappy. 

And then there was Edward, on edge and clearly 
disappointed. I realized he’d been hoping for a 
different reaction from me. Like screaming and 
running away in terror. 

Jacob made the laughing sound again. 

The other wolves were backing away now, not taking 
their eyes off the Cullens as they departed. Jacob 
stood by my side, watching them go. Soon, they 

428 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




disappeared into the murky forest. Only two hesitated 
by the trees, watching Jacob, their postures radiating 
anxiety. 

Edward sighed, and — ignoring Jacob — came to 
stand on my other side, taking my hand. 

“Ready to go?” he asked me. 

Before I could answer, he was staring over me at 
Jacob. 

“I’ve not quite figured out all the details yet,” he said, 
answering a question in Jacob’s thoughts. 

The Jacob-wolf grumbled sullenly. 

“It’s more complicated than that,” Edward said. “Don’t 
concern yourself; I’ll make sure it’s safe.” 

“What are you talking about?” I demanded. 

“Just discussing strategy,” Edward said. 

Jacob’s head swiveled back and forth, looking at our 
faces. Then, suddenly, he bolted for the forest. As he 
darted away, I noticed for the first time a square of 
folded black fabric secured to his back leg. 

“Wait,” I called, one hand stretching out automatically 
to reach after him. But he disappeared into the trees 
in seconds, the other two wolves following. 

“Why did he leave?” I asked, hurt. 

“He’s coming back,” Edward said. He sighed. “He 
wants to be able to talk for himself.” 



429 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I watched the edge of the forest where Jacob had 
vanished, leaning into Edward’s side again. I was on 
the point of collapse, but I was fighting it. 

Jacob loped back into view, on two legs this time. His 
broad chest was bare, his hair tangled and shaggy. 

He wore only a pair of black sweat pants, his feet bare 
to the cold ground. He was alone now, but I 
suspected that his friends lingered in the trees, 
invisible. 

It didn’t take him long to cross the field, though he 
gave a wide berth to the Cullens, who stood talking 
quietly in a loose circle. 

“Okay, bloodsucker,” Jacob said when he was a few 
feet from us, evidently continuing the conversation I’d 
missed. “What’s so complicated about it?” 

“I have to consider every possibility,” Edward said, 
unruffled. “What if someone gets by you?” 

Jacob snorted at that idea. “Okay, so leave her on the 
reservation. We’re making Collin and Brady stay 
behind anyway. She’ll be safe there.” 

I scowled. “Are you talking about me?” 

“I just want to know what he plans to do with you 
during the fight,” Jacob explained. 

“Do with me?” 

“You can’t stay in Forks, Bella.” Edward’s voice was 
pacifying. “They know where to look for you there. 
What if someone slipped by us?” 

My stomach dropped and the blood drained from my 
face. “Charlie?” I gasped. 

430 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He’ll be with Billy,” Jacob assured me quickly. “If my 
dad has to commit a murder to get him there, he’ll do 
it. Probably it won’t take that much. It’s this 
Saturday, right? There’s a game.” 

“This Saturday?” I asked, my head spinning. I was too 
lightheaded to control my wildly random thoughts. I 
frowned at Edward. “Well, crap! There goes your 
graduation present.” 

Edward laughed. “It’s the thought that counts,” he 
reminded me. “You can give the tickets to someone 
else.” 

Inspiration came swiftly. “Angela and Ben,” I decided 
at once. “At least that will get them out of town.” 

He touched my cheek. “You can’t evacuate everyone,” 
he said in a gentle voice. “Hiding you is just a 
precaution. I told you — we’ll have no problem now. 
There won’t be enough of them to keep us 
entertained.” 

“But what about keeping her in La Push?” Jacob 
interjected, impatient. 

“She’s been back and forth too much,” Edward said. 
“She’s left trails all over the place. Alice only sees very 
young vampires coming on the hunt, but obviously 
someone created them. There is someone more 
experienced behind this. Whoever he” — Edward 
paused to look at me — “or she is, this could all be a 
distraction. Alice will see if he decides to look himself, 
but we could be very busy at the time that decision is 
made. Maybe someone is counting on that. I can’t 
leave her somewhere she’s been frequently. She has 
to be hard to find, just in case. It’s a very long shot, 
but I’m not taking chances.” 



431 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at Edward as he explained, my forehead 
creasing. He patted my arm. 

“Just being overcautious,” he promised. 

Jacob gestured to the deep forest east of us, to the 
vast expanse of the Olympic Mountains. 

“So hide her here,” he suggested. “There’s a million 
possibilities — places either one of us could be in just 
a few minutes if there’s a need.” 

Edward shook his head. “Her scent is too strong and, 
combined with mine, especially distinct. Even if I 
carried her, it would leave a trail. Our trace is all over 
the range, but in conjunction with Bella’s scent, it 
would catch their attention. We’re not sure exactly 
which path they’ll take, because they don’t know yet. 
If they crossed her scent before they found us ...” 

Both of them grimaced at the same time, their 
eyebrows pulling together. 

“You see the difficulties.” 

“There has to be a way to make it work,” Jacob 
muttered. He glared toward the forest, pursing his 
lips. 

I swayed on my feet. Edward put his arm around my 
waist, pulling me closer and supporting my weight. 

“I need to get you home — you’re exhausted. And 
Charlie will be waking up soon... .” 

“Wait a sec,” Jacob said, wheeling back to us, his eyes 
bright. “My scent disgusts you, right?” 



432 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Hmm, not bad.” Edward was two steps ahead. “It’s 
possible.” He turned toward his family. “Jasper?” he 
called. 

Jasper looked up curiously. He walked over with Alice 
a half step behind. Her face was frustrated again. 

“Okay, Jacob.” Edward nodded at him. 

Jacob turned toward me with a strange mixture of 
emotion on his face. He was clearly excited by 
whatever this new plan of his was, but he was also 
still uneasy so close to his enemy allies. And then it 
was my turn to be wary as he held his arms out 
toward me. 

Edward took a deep breath. 

“We’re going to see if I can confuse the scent enough 
to hide your trail,” Jacob explained. 

I stared at his open arms suspiciously. 

“You’re going to have to let him carry you, Bella,” 
Edward told me. His voice was calm, but I could hear 
the subdued distaste. 

I frowned. 

Jacob rolled his eyes, impatient, and reached down to 
yank me up into his arms. 

“Don’t be such a baby,” he muttered. 

But his eyes flickered to Edward, just like mine did. 
Edward’s face was composed and smooth. He spoke 
to Jasper. 



433 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella’s scent is so much more potent to me — I 
thought it would be a fairer test if someone else tried.” 

Jacob turned away from them and paced swiftly into 
the woods. I didn’t say anything as the dark closed 
around us. I was pouting, uncomfortable in Jacob’s 
arms. It felt too intimate to me — surely he didn’t 
need to hold me quite so tightly — and I couldn’t help 
but wonder what it felt like to him. It reminded me of 
my last afternoon in La Push, and I didn’t want to 
think about that. I folded my arms, annoyed when the 
brace on my hand intensified the memory. 

We didn’t go far; he made a wide arc and came back 
into the clearing from a different direction, maybe half 
a football field away from our original departure point. 
Edward was there alone and Jacob headed toward 
him. 

“You can put me down now.” 

“I don’t want to take a chance of messing up the 
experiment.” His walk slowed and his arms tightened. 

“You are so annoying,” I muttered. 

“Thanks.” 

Out of nowhere, Jasper and Alice stood beside 
Edward. Jacob took one more step, and then set me 
down a half dozen feet from Edward. Without looking 
back at Jacob, I walked to Edward’s side and took his 
hand. 

“Well?” I asked. 

“As long as you don’t touch anything, Bella, I can’t 
imagine someone sticking their nose close enough to 



434 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




that trail to catch your scent,” Jasper said, grimacing. 
“It was almost completely obscured.” 

“A definite success,” Alice agreed, wrinkling her nose. 

“And it gave me an idea.” 

“Which will work,” Alice added confidently. 

“Clever,” Edward agreed. 

“How do you stand that?” Jacob muttered to me. 

Edward ignored Jacob and looked at me while he 
explained. “We’re — well, you’re — going to leave a 
false trail to the clearing, Bella. The newborns are 
hunting, your scent will excite them, and they’ll come 
exactly the way we want them to without being 
careful about it. Alice can already see that this will 
work. When they catch our scent, they’ll split up and 
try to come at us from two sides. Half will go through 
the forest, where her vision suddenly disappears... .” 

“Yes!” Jacob hissed. 

Edward smiled at him, a smile of true comradeship. 

I felt sick. How could they be so eager for this? How 
could I stand having both of them in danger? I 
couldn’t. 

I wouldn’t. 

“Not a chance,” Edward said suddenly, his voice 
disgusted. It made me jump, worrying that he’d 
somehow heard my resolve, but his eyes were on 
Jasper. 



435 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I know, I know,” Jasper said quickly. “I didn’t even 
consider it, not really.” 

Alice stepped on his foot. 

“If Bella was actually there in the clearing,” Jasper 
explained to her, “it would drive them insane. They 
wouldn’t be able to concentrate on anything but her. 

It would make picking them off truly easy... .” 

Edward’s glare had Jasper backtracking. 

“Of course it’s too dangerous for her. It was just an 
errant thought,” he said quickly. But he looked at me 
from the corner of his eyes, and the look was wistful. 

“No,” Edward said. His voice rang with finality. 

“You’re right,” Jasper said. He took Alice’s hand and 
started back to the others. “Best two out of three?” I 
heard him ask her as they went to practice again. 

Jacob stared after him in disgust. 

“Jasper looks at things from a military perspective,” 
Edward quietly defended his brother. “He looks at all 
the options — it’s thoroughness, not callousness.” 

Jacob snorted. 

He’d edged closer unconsciously, drawn by his 
absorption in the planning. He stood only three feet 
from Edward now, and, standing there between them, 

I could feel the physical tension in the air. It was like 
static, an uncomfortable charge. 

Edward got back to business. “I’ll bring her here 
Friday afternoon to lay the false trail. You can meet 
us afterward, and carry her to a place I know. 

436 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Completely out of the way, and easily defensible, not 
that it will come to that. I’ll take another route there.” 



“And then what? Leave her with a cell phone?” Jacob 
asked critically. 

“You have a better idea?” 

Jacob was suddenly smug. “Actually, I do.” 

“Oh... . Again, dog, not bad at all.” 

Jacob turned to me quickly, as if determined to play 
the good guy by keeping me in the conversation. “We 
tried to talk Seth into staying behind with the 
younger two. He’s still too young, but he’s stubborn 
and he’s resisting. So I thought of a new assignment 
for him — cell phone.” 

I tried to look like I got it. No one was fooled. 

“As long as Seth Clearwater is in his wolf form, he’ll 
be connected to the pack,” Edward said. “Distance 
isn’t a problem?” he added, turning to Jacob. 

“Nope.” 

“Three hundred miles?” Edward asked. “That’s 
impressive.” 

Jacob was the good guy again. “That’s the farthest 
we’ve ever gone to experiment,” he told me. “Still clear 
as a bell.” 

I nodded absently; I was reeling from the idea that 
little Seth Clearwater was already a werewolf, too, and 
that made it difficult to concentrate. I could see his 
bright smile, so much like a younger Jacob, in my 
head; he couldn’t be more than fifteen, if he was that. 
437 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His enthusiasm at the council meeting bonfire 
suddenly took on new meaning. . . . 

“It’s a good idea.” Edward seemed reluctant to admit 
this. “I’ll feel better with Seth there, even without the 
instantaneous communication. I don’t know if I’d be 
able to leave Bella there alone. To think it’s come to 
this, though! Trusting werewolves!” 

“Fighting with vampires instead of against them!” 
Jacob mirrored Edward’s tone of disgust. 

“Well, you still get to fight against some of them,” 
Edward said. 

Jacob smiled. “That’s the reason we’re here.” 



438 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




SELFISH 



Edward carried me in his arms, expecting that I 
wouldn’t be able to hang on. I must have fallen asleep 
on the way. 

When I woke up, I was in my bed and the dull light 
coming through my windows slanted in from a 
strange angle. Almost like it was afternoon. 

I yawned and stretched, my fingers searching for him 
and coming up empty. 

“Edward?” I mumbled. 

My seeking fingers encountered something cool and 
smooth. His hand. 

“Are you really awake this time?” he murmured. 

“Mmm,” I sighed in assent. “Have there been a lot of 
false alarms?” 

“You’ve been very restless — talking all day.” 

“All day?” I blinked and looked at the windows again. 

“You had a long night,” he said reassuringly. “You’d 
earned a day in bed.” 

I sat up, and my head spun. The light was coming in 
my window from the west. “Wow.” 

“Hungry?” he guessed. “Do you want breakfast in 
bed?” 



439 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



“I’ll get it,” I groaned, stretching again. “I need to get 
up and move around.” 



He held my hand on the way to the kitchen, eyeing 
me carefully, like I might fall over. Or maybe he 
thought I was sleepwalking. 

I kept it simple, throwing a couple of Pop-Tarts in the 
toaster. I caught a glimpse of myself in the reflective 
chrome. 

“Ugh, I’m a mess.” 

“It was a long night,” he said again. “You should have 
stayed here and slept.” 

“Right! And missed everything. You know, you need to 
start accepting the fact that I’m part of the family 
now.” 

He smiled. “I could probably get used to that idea.” 

I sat down with my breakfast, and he sat next to me. 
When I lifted the Pop-Tart to take the first bite, I 
noticed him staring at my hand. I looked down, and 
saw that I was still wearing the gift that Jacob had 
given me at the party. 

“May I?” he asked, reaching for the tiny wooden wolf. 

I swallowed noisily. “Um, sure.” 

He moved his hand under the charm bracelet and 
balanced the little figurine in his snowy palm. For a 
fleeting moment, I was afraid. Just the slightest twist 
of his fingers could crush it into splinters. 

But of course Edward wouldn’t do that. I was 
embarrassed I’d even had the thought. He only 

440 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




weighed the wolf in his palm for a moment, and then 
let it fall. It swung lightly from my wrist. 

I tried to read the expression in his eyes. All I could 
see was thoughtfulness; he kept everything else 
hidden, if there was anything else. 

“Jacob Black can give you presents.” 

It wasn’t a question, or an accusation. Just a 
statement of fact. But I knew he was referring to my 
last birthday and the fit I’d thrown over gifts; I hadn’t 
wanted any. Especially not from Edward. It wasn’t 
entirely logical, and, of course, everyone had ignored 
me anyway... . 

“You’ve given me presents,” I reminded him. “You 
know I like the homemade kind.” 

He pursed his lips for a second. “How about hand- 
me-downs? Are those acceptable?” 

“What do you mean?” 

“This bracelet.” His finger traced a circle around my 
wrist. “You’ll be wearing this a lot?” 

I shrugged. 

“Because you wouldn’t want to hurt his feelings,” he 
suggested shrewdly. 

“Sure, I guess so.” 

“Don’t you think it’s fair, then,” he asked, looking 
down at my hand as he spoke. He turned it palm up, 
and ran his finger along the veins in my wrist. “If I 
have a little representation?” 



441 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Representation?” 

“A charm — something to keep me on your mind.” 

“You’re in every thought I have. I don’t need 
reminders.” 

“If I gave you something, would you wear it?” he 
pressed. 

“A hand-me-down?” I checked. 

“Yes, something I’ve had for a while.” He smiled his 
angel’s smile. 

If this was the only reaction to Jacob’s gift, I would 
take it gladly. “Whatever makes you happy.” 

“Have you noticed the inequality?” he asked, and his 
voice turned accusing. “Because I certainly have.” 

“What inequality?” 

His eyes narrowed. “Everyone else is able to get away 
with giving you things. Everyone but me. I would have 
loved to get you a graduation present, but I didn’t. I 
knew it would have upset you more than if anyone 
else did. That’s utterly unfair. How do you explain 
yourself?” 

“Easy.” I shrugged. “You’re more important than 
everyone else. And you’ve given me you. That’s 
already more than I deserve, and anything else you 
give me just throws us more out of balance.” 

He processed that for a moment, and then rolled his 
eyes. “The way you regard me is ludicrous.” 



442 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I chewed my breakfast calmly. I knew he wouldn’t 
listen if I told him that he had that backward. 

Edward’s phone buzzed. 

He looked at the number before he opened it. “What is 
it, Alice?” 

He listened, and I waited for his reaction, suddenly 
nervous. But whatever she said didn’t surprise him. 
He sighed a few times. 

“I sort of guessed as much,” he told her, staring into 
my eyes, a disapproving arch to his brow. “She was 
talking in her sleep.” 

I flushed. What had I said now? 

“I’ll take care of it,” he promised. 

He glared at me as he shut his phone. “Is there 
something you’d like to talk to me about?” 

I deliberated for a moment. Given Alice’s warning last 
night, I could guess why she’d called. And then 
remembering the troubled dreams I’d had as I’d slept 
through the day — dreams where I chased after 
Jasper, trying to follow him and find the clearing in 
the maze-like woods, knowing I would find Edward 
there . . . Edward, and the monsters who wanted to kill 
me, but not caring about them because I’d already 
made my decision — I could also guess what Edward 
had overheard while I’d slept. 

I pursed my lips for a moment, not quite able to meet 
his gaze. He waited. 

“I like Jasper’s idea,” I finally said. 



443 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He groaned. 

“I want to help. I have to do something,” I insisted. 

“It wouldn’t help to have you in danger.” 

“Jasper thinks it would. This is his area of expertise.” 
Edward glowered at me. 

“You can’t keep me away,” I threatened. “I’m not going 
to hide out in the forest while you all take risks for 
me.” 

Suddenly, he was fighting a smile. “Alice doesn’t see 
you in the clearing, Bella. She sees you stumbling 
around lost in the woods. You won’t be able to find 
us; you’ll just make it more time consuming for me to 
find you afterward.” 

I tried to keep as cool as he was. “That’s because Alice 
didn’t factor in Seth Clearwater,” I said politely. “If 
she had, of course, she wouldn’t have been able to see 
anything at all. But it sounds like Seth wants to be 
there as much as I do. It shouldn’t be too hard to 
persuade him to show me the way.” 

Anger flickered across his face, and then he took a 
deep breath and composed himself. “That might have 
worked ... if you hadn’t told me. Now I’ll just ask Sam 
to give Seth certain orders. Much as he might want 
to, Seth won’t be able to ignore that kind of 
injunction.” 

I kept my smile pleasant. “But why would Sam give 
those orders? If I tell him how it would help for me to 
be there? I’ll bet Sam would rather do me a favor than 
you.” 



444 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He had to compose himself again. “Maybe you’re 
right. But I’m sure Jacob would be only too eager to 
give those same orders.” 

I frowned. “Jacob?” 

“Jacob is second in command. Did he never tell you 
that? His orders have to be followed, too.” 

He had me, and by his smile, he knew it. My forehead 
crumpled. Jacob would be on his side — in this one 
instance — I was sure. And Jacob never had told me 
that. 

Edward took advantage of the fact that I was 
momentarily stumped, continuing in a suspiciously 
smooth and soothing voice. 

“I got a fascinating look into the pack’s mind last 
night. It was better than a soap opera. I had no idea 
how complex the dynamic is with such a large pack. 
The pull of the individual against the plural psyche . . . 
Absolutely fascinating.” 

He was obviously trying to distract me. I glared at 
him. 

“Jacob’s been keeping a lot of secrets,” he said with a 
grin. 

I didn’t answer, I just kept glaring, holding on to my 
argument and waiting for an opening. 

“For instance, did you note the smaller gray wolf there 
last night?” 

I nodded one stiff nod. 



445 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He chuckled. “They take all of their legends so 
seriously. It turns out there are things that none of 
their stories prepared them for.” 

I sighed. “Okay, I’ll bite. What are you talking about?” 

“They always accepted without question that it was 
only the direct grandsons of the original wolf who had 
the power to transform.” 

“So someone changed who wasn’t a direct 
descendant?” 

“No. She’s a direct descendant, all right.” 

I blinked, and my eyes widened. “She?” 

He nodded. “She knows you. Her name is Leah 
Clearwater.” 

“Leah’s a werewolf!” I shrieked. “What? For how long? 
Why didn’t Jacob tell me?” 

“There are things he wasn’t allowed to share — their 
numbers, for instance. Like I said before, when Sam 
gives an order, the pack simply isn’t able to ignore it. 
Jacob was very careful to think of other things when 
he was near me. Of course, after last night that’s all 
out the window.” 

“I can’t believe it. Leah Clearwater!” Suddenly, I 
remembered Jacob speaking of Leah and Sam, and 
the way he acted as if he’d said too much — after he’d 
said something about Sam having to look in Leah’s 
eyes every day and know that he’d broken all his 
promises... . Leah on the cliff, a tear glistening on her 
cheek when Old Quil had spoken of the burden and 
sacrifice the Quileute sons shared... . And Billy, 
spending time with Sue because she was having 
446 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




trouble with her kids . . . and here the trouble actually 
was that both of them were werewolves now! 

I hadn’t given much thought to Leah Clearwater, just 
to grieve for her loss when Harry had passed away, 
and then to pity her again when Jacob had told her 
story, about how the strange imprinting between Sam 
and her cousin Emily had broken Leah’s heart. 

And now she was part of Sam’s pack, hearing his 
thoughts ... and unable to hide her own. 

I really hate that part, Jacob had said. Everything 
you’re ashamed of, laid out for everyone to see. 

“Poor Leah,” I whispered. 

Edward snorted. “She’s making life exceedingly 
unpleasant for the rest of them. I’m not sure she 
deserves your sympathy.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“It’s hard enough for them, having to share all their 
thoughts. Most of them try to cooperate, make it 
easier. When even one member is deliberately 
malicious, it’s painful for everyone.” 

“She has reason enough,” I mumbled, still on her 
side. 

“Oh, I know,” he said. “The imprinting compulsion is 
one of the strangest things I’ve ever witnessed in my 
life, and I’ve seen some strange things.” He shook his 
head wonderingly. “The way Sam is tied to his Emily 
is impossible to describe — or I should say her Sam. 
Sam really had no choice. It reminds me of A 
Midsummer Night’s Dream with all the chaos caused 



447 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




by the fairies’ love spells ... like magic.” He smiled. 

“It’s very nearly as strong as the way I feel about you.” 

“Poor Leah,” I said again. “But what do you mean, 
malicious?” 

“She’s constantly bringing up things they’d rather not 
think of,” he explained. “For example, Embry.” 

“What’s with Embry?” I asked, surprised. 

“His mother moved down from the Makah reservation 
seventeen years ago, when she was pregnant with 
him. She’s not Quileute. Everyone assumed she’d left 
his father behind with the Makahs. But then he 
joined the pack.” 

“So?” 

“So the prime candidates for his father are Quil 
Ateara Sr., Joshua Uley, or Billy Black, all of them 
married at that point, of course.” 

“No!” I gasped. Edward was right — this was exactly 
like a soap opera. 

“Now Sam, Jacob, and Quil all wonder which of them 
has a half-brother. They’d all like to think it’s Sam, 
since his father was never much of a father. But the 
doubt is always there. Jacob’s never been able to ask 
Billy about that.” 

“Wow. How did you get so much in one night?” 

“The pack mind is mesmerizing. All thinking together 
and then separately at the same time. There’s so 
much to read!” 



448 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He sounded faintly regretful, like someone who’d had 
to put down a good book just before the climax. I 
laughed. 

“The pack is fascinating,” I agreed. “Almost as 
fascinating as you are when you’re trying to distract 
me.” 

His expression became polite again — a perfect poker 
face. 

“I have to be in that clearing, Edward.” 

“No,” he said in a very final tone. 

A certain path occurred to me at that moment. 

It wasn’t so much that I had to be in the clearing. I 
just had to be where Edward was. 

Cruel, I accused myself. Selfish, selfish, selfish! Don’t 
do it! 

I ignored my better instincts. I couldn’t look at him 
while I spoke, though. The guilt had my eyes glued to 
the table. 

“Okay, look, Edward,” I whispered. “Here’s the thing 
... I’ve already gone crazy once. I know what my limits 
are. And I can’t stand it if you leave me again.” 

I didn’t look up to see his reaction, afraid to know 
how much pain I was inflicting. I did hear his sudden 
intake of breath and the silence that followed. I stared 
at the dark wooden tabletop, wishing I could take the 
words back. But knowing I probably wouldn’t. Not if it 
worked. 



449 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Suddenly, his arms were around me, his hands 
stroking my face, my arms. He was comforting me. 
The guilt went into spiral mode. But the survival 
instinct was stronger. There was no question that he 
was fundamental to my survival. 

“You know it’s not like that, Bella,” he murmured. “I 
won’t be far, and it will be over quickly.” 

“I can’t stand it,” I insisted, still staring down. “Not 
knowing whether or not you’ll come back. How do I 
live through that, no matter how quickly it’s over?” 

He sighed. “It’s going to be easy, Bella. There’s no 
reason for your fears.” 

“None at all?” 

“None.” 

“And everybody will be fine?” 

“Everyone,” he promised. 

“So there’s no way at all that I need to be in the 
clearing?” 

“Of course not. Alice just told me that they’re down to 
nineteen. Well be able to handle it easily.” 

“That’s right — you said it was so easy that someone 
could sit out,” I repeated his words from last night. 
“Did you really mean that?” 

“Yes.” 

It felt too simple — he had to see it coming. 

“So easy that you could sit out?” 

450 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




After a long moment of silence, I finally looked up at 
his expression. 

The poker face was back. 



I took a deep breath. “So it’s one way or the other. 
Either there is more danger than you want me to 
know about, in which case it would be right for me to 
be there, to do what I can to help. Or ... it’s going to 
be so easy that they’ll get by without you. Which way 



is it?” 



He didn’t speak. 

I knew what he was thinking of — the same thing I 
was thinking of. Carlisle. Esme. Emmett. Rosalie. 
Jasper. And ... I forced myself to think the last name. 
And Alice. 

I wondered if I was a monster. Not the kind that he 
thought he was, but the real kind. The kind that hurt 
people. The kind that had no limits when it came to 
what they wanted. 

What I wanted was to keep him safe, safe with me. 

Did I have a limit to what I would do, what I would 
sacrifice for that? I wasn’t sure. 

“You ask me to let them fight without my help?” he 
said in a quiet voice. 

“Yes.” I was surprised I could keep my voice even, I 
felt so wretched inside. “Or to let me be there. Either 
way, so long as we’re together.” 

He took a deep breath, and then exhaled slowly. He 
moved his hands to place them on either side of my 
face, forcing me to meet his gaze. He looked into my 
eyes for a long time. I wondered what he was looking 

451 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




for, and what it was that he found. Was the guilt as 
thick on my face as it was in my stomach — sickening 
me? 

His eyes tightened against some emotion I couldn’t 
read, and he dropped one hand to pull out his phone 
again. 

“Alice,” he sighed. “Could you come babysit Bella for a 
bit?” He raised one eyebrow, daring me to object to 
the word. “I need to speak with Jasper.” 

She evidently agreed. He put the phone away and 
went back to staring at my face. 

“What are you going to say to Jasper?” I whispered. 

“I’m going to discuss ... me sitting out.” 

It was easy to read in his face how difficult the words 
were for him. 

“I’m sorry.” 

I was sorry. I hated to make him do this. Not enough 
that I could fake a smile and tell him to go on ahead 
without me. Definitely not that much. 

“Don’t apologize,” he said, smiling just a little. “Never 
be afraid to tell me how you feel, Bella. If this is what 
you need ...” He shrugged. “You are my first priority.” 

“I didn’t mean it that way — like you have to choose 
me over your family.” 

“I know that. Besides, that’s not what you asked. You 
gave me two alternatives that you could live with, and 
I chose the one that I could live with. That’s how 
compromise is supposed to work.” 

452 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I leaned forward and rested my forehead against his 
chest. “Thank you,” I whispered. 

“Anytime,” he answered, kissing my hair. “Anything.” 

We didn’t move for a long moment. I kept my face 
hidden, pressed against his shirt. Two voices 
struggled inside me. One that wanted to be good and 
brave, and one that told the good one to keep her 
mouth shut. 

“Who’s the third wife?” he asked me suddenly. 

“Huh?” I said, stalling. I didn’t remember having had 
that dream again. 

“You were mumbling something about ‘the third wife’ 
last night. The rest made a little sense, but you lost 
me there.” 

“Oh. Um, yeah. That was just one of the stories that I 
heard at the bonfire the other night.” I shrugged. “I 
guess it stuck with me.” 

Edward leaned away from me and cocked his head to 
the side, probably confused by the uncomfortable 
edge to my voice. 

Before he could ask, Alice appeared in the kitchen 
doorway with a sour expression. 

“You’re going to miss all the fun,” she grumbled. 

“Hello, Alice,” he greeted her. He put one finger under 
my chin and tilted my face up to kiss me goodbye. 

“I’ll be back later tonight,” he promised me. “I’ll go 
work this out with the others, rearrange things.” 



453 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Okay.” 



“There’s not much to arrange,” Alice said. “I already 
told them. Emmett is pleased.” 

Edward sighed. “Of course he is.” 

He walked out the door, leaving me to face Alice. 

She glared at me. 

“I’m sorry,” I apologized again. “Do you think this will 
make it more dangerous for you?” 

She snorted. “You worry too much, Bella. You’re going 
to go prematurely gray.” 

“Why are you upset, then?” 

“Edward is such a grouch when he doesn’t get his 
way. I’m just anticipating living with him for the next 
few months.” She made a face. “I suppose, if it keeps 
you sane, it’s worth it. But I wish you could control 
the pessimism, Bella. It’s so unnecessary.” 

“Would you let Jasper go without you?” I demanded. 

Alice grimaced. “That’s different.” 

“Sure it is.” 

“Go clean yourself up,” she ordered me. “Charlie will 
be home in fifteen minutes, and if you look this 
ragged he’s not going to want to let you out again.” 

Wow, I’d really lost the whole day. It felt like such a 
waste. I was glad I wouldn’t always have to squander 
my time with sleeping. 



454 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I was entirely presentable when Charlie got home — 
fully dressed, hair decent, and in the kitchen putting 
his dinner on the table. Alice sat in Edward’s usual 
place, and this seemed to make Charlie’s day. 

“Howdy, Alice! How are you, hon?” 

“I’m fine, Charlie, thanks.” 

“I see you finally made it out of bed, sleepyhead,” he 
said to me as I sat beside him, before turning back to 
Alice. “Everyone’s talking about that party your 
parents threw last night. I’ll bet you’ve got one heck of 
a clean-up job ahead of you.” 

Alice shrugged. Knowing her, it was already done. 

“It was worth it,” she said. “It was a great party.” 

“Where’s Edward?” Charlie asked, a little grudgingly. 
“Is he helping clean up?” 

Alice sighed and her face turned tragic. It was 
probably an act, but it was too perfect for me to be 
positive. “No. He’s off planning the weekend with 
Emmett and Carlisle.” 

“Hiking again?” 

Alice nodded, her face suddenly forlorn. “Yes. They’re 
all going, except me. We always go backpacking at the 
end of the school year, sort of a celebration, but this 
year I decided I’d rather shop than hike, and not one 
of them will stay behind with me. I’m abandoned.” 

Her face puckered, the expression so devastated that 
Charlie leaned toward her automatically, one hand 
reaching out, looking for some way to help. I glared at 
her suspiciously. What was she doing? 

455 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alice, honey, why don’t you come stay with us,” 
Charlie offered. “I hate to think of you all alone in that 
big house.” 

She sighed. Something squashed my foot under the 
table. 

“Ow!” I protested. 

Charlie turned to me. “What?” 

Alice shot me a frustrated look. I could tell she 
thought that I was very slow tonight. 

“Stubbed my toe,” I muttered. 

“Oh.” He looked back at Alice. “So, how ’bout it?” 

She stepped on my foot again, not quite so hard this 
time. 

“Er, Dad, you know, we don’t really have the best 
accommodations here. I bet Alice doesn’t want to 
sleep on my floor... .” 

Charlie pursed his lips. Alice pulled out the 
devastated expression again. 

“Maybe Bella should stay up there with you,” he 
suggested. “Just until your folks get back.” 

“Oh, would you, Bella?” Alice smiled at me radiantly. 
“You don’t mind shopping with me, right?” 

“Sure,” I agreed. “Shopping. Okay.” 

“When are they leaving?” Charlie asked. 

Alice made another face. “Tomorrow.” 

456 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“When do you want me?” I asked. 

“After dinner, I guess,” she said, and then put one 
finger to her chin, thoughtful. “You don’t have 
anything going on Saturday, do you? I want to get out 
of town to shop, and it will be an all-day thing.” 

“Not Seattle,” Charlie interjected, his eyebrows pulling 
together. 

“Of course not,” Alice agreed at once, though we both 
knew Seattle would be plenty safe on Saturday. “I was 
thinking Olympia, maybe... .” 

“You’ll like that, Bella.” Charlie was cheerful with 
relief. “Go get your fill of the city.” 

“Yeah, Dad. It’ll be great.” 

With one easy conversation, Alice had cleared my 
schedule for the battle. 

Edward returned not much later. He accepted 
Charlie’s wishes for a nice trip without surprise. He 
claimed they were leaving early in the morning, and 
said goodnight before the usual time. Alice left with 
him. 

I excused myself soon after they left. 

“You can’t be tired,” Charlie protested. 

“A little,” I lied. 

“No wonder you like to skip the parties,” he muttered. 
“It takes you so long to recover.” 

Upstairs, Edward was lying across my bed. 



457 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What time are we meeting with the wolves?” I 
murmured as I went to join him. 

“In an hour.” 

“That’s good. Jake and his friends need to get some 
sleep.” 

“They don’t need as much as you do,” he pointed out. 

I moved to another topic, assuming he was about to 
try to talk me into staying home. “Did Alice tell you 
that she’s kidnapping me again?” 

He grinned. “Actually, she’s not.” 

I stared at him, confused, and he laughed quietly at 
my expression. 

“I’m the only one who has permission to hold you 
hostage, remember?” he said. “Alice is going hunting 
with the rest of them.” He sighed. “I guess I don’t 
need to do that now.” 

“You’re kidnapping me?” 

He nodded. 

I thought about that briefly. No Charlie listening 
downstairs, checking on me every so often. And no 
houseful of wide-awake vampires with their 
intrusively sensitive hearing. . . . Just him and me — 
really alone. 

“Is that all right?” he asked, concerned by my silence. 
“Well ... sure, except for one thing.” 



458 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What thing?” His eyes were anxious. It was mind- 
boggling, but, somehow, he still seemed unsure of his 
hold on me. Maybe I needed to make myself more 
clear. 

“Why didn’t Alice tell Charlie you were leaving 
tonight?” I asked. 

He laughed, relieved. 

I enjoyed the trip to the clearing more than I had last 
night. I still felt guilty, still afraid, but I wasn’t 
terrified anymore. I could function. I could see past 
what was coming, and almost believe that maybe it 
would be okay. Edward was apparently fine with the 
idea of missing the fight ... and that made it very hard 
not to believe him when he said this would be easy. 

He wouldn’t leave his family if he didn’t believe it 
himself. Maybe Alice was right, and I did worry too 
much. 

We got to the clearing last. 

Jasper and Emmett were already wrestling — just 
warming up from the sounds of their laughter. Alice 
and Rosalie lounged on the hard ground, watching. 
Esme and Carlisle were talking a few yards away, 
heads close together, fingers linked, not paying 
attention. 

It was much brighter tonight, the moon shining 
through the thin clouds, and I could easily see the 
three wolves that sat around the edge of the practice 
ring, spaced far apart to watch from different angles. 

It was also easy to recognize Jacob; I would have 
known him at once, even if he hadn’t looked up and 
stared at the sound of our approach. 



459 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Where are the rest of the wolves?” I wondered. 

“They don’t all need to be here. One would do the job, 
but Sam didn’t trust us enough to just send Jacob, 
though Jacob was willing. Quil and Embry are his 
usual ... I guess you could call them his wingmen.” 

“Jacob trusts you.” 

Edward nodded. “He trusts us not to try to kill him. 
That’s about it, though.” 

“Are you participating tonight?” I asked, hesitant. I 
knew this was going to be almost as hard for him as 
being left behind would have been for me. Maybe 
harder. 

“I’ll help Jasper when he needs it. He wants to try 
some unequal groupings, teach them how to deal with 
multiple attackers.” 

He shrugged. 

And a fresh wave of panic shattered my brief sense of 
confidence. 

They were still outnumbered. I was making that 
worse. 

I stared at the field, trying to hide my reaction. 

It was the wrong place to look, struggling as I was to 
lie to myself, to convince myself that everything would 
work out as I needed it to. Because when I forced my 
eyes away from the Cullens — away from the image of 
their play fighting that would be real and deadly in 
just a few days — Jacob caught my eyes and smiled. 



460 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It was the same wolfy grin as before, his eyes 
scrunching the way they did when he was human. 



It was hard to believe that, not so long ago, I’d found 
the werewolves frightening — lost sleep to nightmares 
about them. 

I knew, without asking, which of the others was 
Embry and which was Quil. Because Embry was 
clearly the thinner gray wolf with the dark spots on 
his back, who sat so patiently watching, while Quil — 
deep chocolate brown, lighter over his face — 
twitched constantly, looking like he was dying to join 
in the mock fight. They weren’t monsters, even like 
this. They were friends. 

Friends who didn’t look nearly as indestructible as 
Emmett and Jasper did, moving faster than cobra 
strikes while the moonlight glinted off their granite- 
hard skin. Friends who didn’t seem to understand the 
danger involved here. Friends who were still 
somewhat mortal, friends who could bleed, friends 
who could die... . 

Edward’s confidence was reassuring, because it was 
plain that he wasn’t truly worried about his family. 
But would it hurt him if something happened to the 
wolves? Was there any reason for him to be anxious, 
if that possibility didn’t bother him? Edward’s 
confidence only applied to one set of my fears. 

I tried to smile back at Jacob, swallowing against the 
lump in my throat. I didn’t seem to get it right. 

Jacob sprang lightly to his feet, his agility at odds 
with his sheer mass, and trotted over to where 
Edward and I stood on the fringe of things. 

“Jacob,” Edward greeted him politely. 

461 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob ignored him, his dark eyes on me. He put his 
head down to my level, as he had yesterday, cocking 
it to one side. A low whimper escaped his muzzle. 

“I’m fine,” I answered, not needing the translation 
that Edward was about to give. “Just worried, you 
know.” 

Jacob continued to stare at me. 

“He wants to know why,” Edward murmured. 

Jacob growled — not a threatening sound, an 
annoyed sound — and Edward’s lips twitched. 

“What?” I asked. 

“He thinks my translations leave something to be 
desired. What he actually thought was, That’s really 
stupid. What is there to be worried about?’ I edited, 
because I thought it was rude.” 

I halfway smiled, too anxious to really feel amused. 
“There’s plenty to be worried about,” I told Jacob. 
“Like a bunch of really stupid wolves getting 
themselves hurt.” 

Jacob laughed his coughing bark. 

Edward sighed. “Jasper wants help. You’ll be okay 
without a translator?” 

“I’ll manage.” 

Edward looked at me wistfully for one minute, his 
expression hard to understand, then turned his back 
and strode over to where Jasper waited. 



462 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I sat down where I was. The ground was cold and 
uncomfortable . 



Jacob took a step forward, then looked back at me, 
and a low whine rose in his throat. He took another 
half-step. 

“Go on without me,” I told him. “I don’t want to 
watch.” 

Jacob leaned his head to the side again for a moment, 
and then folded himself on to the ground beside me 
with a rumbling sigh. 

“Really, you can go ahead,” I assured him. He didn’t 
respond, he just put his head down on his paws. 

I stared up at the bright silver clouds, not wanting to 
see the fight. My imagination had more than enough 
fuel. A breeze blew through the clearing, and I 
shivered. 

Jacob scooted himself closer to me, pressing his 
warm fur against my left side. 

“Er, thanks,” I muttered. 

After a few minutes, I leaned against his wide 
shoulder. It was much more comfortable that way. 

The clouds moved slowly across the sky, dimming 
and brightening as thick patches crossed the moon 
and passed on. 

Absently, I began pulling my fingers through the fur 
on his neck. That same strange humming sound that 
he’d made yesterday rumbled in his throat. It was a 
homey kind of sound. Rougher, wilder than a cat’s 
purr, but conveying the same sense of contentment. 
463 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You know, I never had a dog,” I mused. “I always 
wanted one, but Renee’s allergic.” 

Jacob laughed; his body shook under me. 

“Aren’t you worried about Saturday at all?” I asked. 

He turned his enormous head toward me, so that I 
could see one of his eyes roll. 

“I wish I could feel that positive.” 

He leaned his head against my leg and started 
humming again. And it did make me feel just a little 
bit better. 

“So we’ve got some hiking to do tomorrow, I guess.” 

He rumbled; the sound was enthusiastic. 

“It might be a long hike,” I warned him. “Edward 
doesn’t judge distances the way a normal person 
does.” 

Jacob barked another laugh. 

I settled deeper into his warm fur, resting my head 
against his neck. 

It was strange. Even though he was in this bizarre 
form, this felt more like the way Jake and I used to be 
— the easy, effortless friendship that was as natural 
as breathing in and out — than the last few times I’d 
been with Jacob while he was human. Odd that I 
should find that again here, when I’d thought this 
wolf thing was the cause of its loss. 

The killing games continued in the clearing, and I 
stared at the hazy moon. 

464 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




COMPROMISE 




Everything was ready. 

I was packed for my two-day visit with “Alice,” and my 
bag waited for me on the passenger seat of my truck. 
I’d given the concert tickets to Angela, Ben, and Mike. 
Mike was going to take Jessica, which was exactly as 
I’d hoped. Billy had borrowed Old Quil Ateara’s boat 
and invited Charlie down for some open sea fishing 
before the afternoon game started. Collin and Brady, 
the two youngest werewolves, were staying behind to 
protect La Push — though they were just children, 
both of them only thirteen. Still, Charlie would be 
safer than anyone left in Forks. 

I had done all that I could do. I tried to accept that, 
and put the things that were outside of my control 
out of my head, for tonight at least. One way or 
another, this would all be over in forty-eight hours. 
The thought was almost comforting. 

Edward had requested that I relax, and I was going to 
do my best. 

“For this one night, could we try to forget everything 
besides just you and me?” he’d pleaded, unleashing 
the full force of his eyes on me. “It seems like I can 
never get enough time like that. I need to be with you. 
Just you.” 

That was not a hard request to agree to, though I 
knew that forgetting my fears would be much easier 
said than done. Other matters were on my mind now, 



465 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



knowing that we had this night to be alone, and that 
would help. 

There were some things that had changed. 

For instance, I was ready. 

I was ready to join his family and his world. The fear 
and guilt and anguish I was feeling now had taught 
me that much. I’d had a chance to concentrate on 
this — as I’d gazed at the moon through the clouds 
and rested against a werewolf — and I knew I would 
not panic again. The next time something came at us, 
I would be ready. An asset, not a liability. He would 
never have to make the choice between me and his 
family again. We would be partners, like Alice and 
Jasper. Next time, I would do my part. 

I would wait for the sword to be removed from over 
my head, so that Edward would be satisfied. But it 
wasn’t necessary. I was ready. 

There was only one missing piece. 

One piece, because there were some things that had 
not changed, and that included the desperate way I 
loved him. I’d had plenty of time to think through the 
ramifications of Jasper and Emmett’s bet — to figure 
out the things I was willing to lose with my humanity, 
and the part that I was not willing to give up. I knew 
which human experience I was going to insist on 
before I became inhuman. 

So we had some things to work out tonight. After 
everything I’d seen in the past two years, I didn’t 
believe in the word impossible anymore. It was going 
to take more than that to stop me now. 



466 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Okay, well, honestly, it was probably going to be 
much more complicated than that. But I was going to 
try. 



As decided as I was, I wasn’t surprised that I still felt 
nervous as I drove down the long path to his house — 
I didn’t know how to do what I was trying to do, and 
that guaranteed me some serious jitters. He sat in the 
passenger seat, fighting a smile at my slow pace. I 
was surprised that he hadn’t insisted on taking the 
wheel, but tonight he seemed content to go at my 
speed. 

It was after dark when we reached the house. In spite 
of that, the meadow was bright in the light shining 
from every window. 

As soon as I cut the engine he was at my door, 
opening it for me. He lifted me from the cab with one 
arm, slinging my bag out of the truck bed and over 
his shoulder with the other. His lips found mine as I 
heard him kick the truck’s door shut behind me. 

Without breaking the kiss, he swung me up so that I 
was cradled in his arms and carried me into the 
house. 

Was the front door already open? I didn’t know. We 
were inside, though, and I was dizzy. I had to remind 
myself to breathe. 

This kissing did not frighten me. It wasn’t like before 
when I could feel the fear and panic leaking through 
his control. His lips were not anxious, but 
enthusiastic now — he seemed as thrilled as I was 
that we had tonight to concentrate on being together. 
He continued to kiss me for several minutes, standing 
there in the entry; he seemed less guarded than 
usual, his mouth cold and urgent on mine. 

467 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I began to feel cautiously optimistic. Perhaps getting 
what I wanted would not be as difficult as I’d expected 
it to be. 

No, of course it was going to be just exactly that 
difficult. 

With a low chuckle, he pulled me away, holding me at 
arm’s length. 

“Welcome home,” he said, his eyes liquid and warm. 

“That sounds nice,” I said, breathless. 

He set me gently on my feet. I wrapped both my arms 
around him, refusing to allow any space between us. 

“I have something for you,” he said, his tone 
conversational. 

“Oh?” 

“Your hand-me-down, remember? You said that was 
allowable.” 

“Oh, that’s right. I guess I did say that.” 

He chuckled at my reluctance. 

“It’s up in my room. Shall I go get it?” 

His bedroom? “Sure,” I agreed, feeling quite devious 
as I wound my fingers through his. “Let’s go.” 

He must have been eager to give me my non-present, 
because human velocity was not fast enough for him. 
He scooped me up again and nearly flew up the stairs 
to his room. He set me down at the door, and darted 
into his closet. 

468 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He was back before I’d taken a step, but I ignored him 
and went to the huge gold bed, plopping down on the 
edge and then sliding to the center. I curled up in a 
ball, my arms wrapped around my knees. 

“Okay,” I grumbled. Now that I was where I wanted to 
be, I could afford a little reluctance. “Let me have it.” 

Edward laughed. 

He climbed onto the bed to sit next to me, and my 
heart thumped unevenly. Hopefully he would write 
that off as some reaction to him giving me presents. 

“A hand-me-down,” he reminded me sternly. He 
pulled my left wrist away from my leg, and touched 
the silver bracelet for just a moment. Then he gave 
me my arm back. 

I examined it cautiously. On the opposite side of the 
chain from the wolf, there now hung a brilliant heart- 
shaped crystal. It was cut in a million facets, so that 
even in the subdued light shining from the lamp, it 
sparkled. I inhaled in a low gasp. 

“It was my mother’s.” He shrugged deprecatingly. “I 
inherited quite a few baubles like this. I’ve given some 
to Esme and Alice both. So, clearly, this is not a big 
deal in any way.” 

I smiled ruefully at his assurance. 

“But I thought it was a good representation,” he 
continued. “It’s hard and cold.” He laughed. “And it 
throws rainbows in the sunlight.” 

“You forgot the most important similarity,” I 
murmured. “It’s beautiful.” 



469 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“My heart is just as silent,” he mused. “And it, too, is 
yours.” 

I twisted my wrist so the heart would glimmer. 

“Thank you. For both.” 

“No, thank you. It’s a relief to have you accept a gift 
so easily. Good practice for you, too.” He grinned, 
flashing his teeth. 

I leaned into him, ducking my head under his arm 
and cuddling into his side. It probably felt similar to 
snuggling with Michelangelo’s David, except that this 
perfect marble creature wrapped his arms around me 
to pull me closer. 

It seemed like a good place to start. 

“Can we discuss something? I’d appreciate it if you 
could begin by being open-minded.” 

He hesitated for a moment. “I’ll give it my best effort,” 
he agreed, cautious now. 

“I’m not breaking any rules here,” I promised. “This is 
strictly about you and me.” I cleared my throat. “So ... 
I was impressed by how well we were able to 
compromise the other night. I was thinking I would 
like to apply the same principle to a different 
situation.” I wondered why I was being so formal. 
Must be the nerves. 

“What would you like to negotiate?” he asked, a smile 
in his voice. 

I struggled, trying to find exactly the right words to 
open with. 



470 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Listen to your heart fly,” he murmured. “It’s 
fluttering like a hummingbird’s wings. Are you all 
right?” 

“I’m great.” 

“Please go on then,” he encouraged. 

“Well, I guess, first, I wanted to talk to you about that 
whole ridiculous marriage condition thing.” 

“It’s only ridiculous to you. What about it?” 

“I was wondering ... is that open to negotiation?” 

Edward frowned, serious now. “I’ve already made the 
largest concession by far and away — I’ve agreed to 
take your life away against my better judgment. And 
that ought to entitle me to a few compromises on your 
part.” 

“No.” I shook my head, focusing on keeping my face 
composed. “That part’s a done deal. We’re not 
discussing my . . . renovations right now. I want to 
hammer out some other details.” 

He looked at me suspiciously. “Which details do you 
mean exactly?” 

I hesitated. “Let’s clarify your prerequisites first.” 

“You know what I want.” 

“Matrimony.” I made it sound like a dirty word. 

“Yes.” He smiled a wide smile. “To start with.” 

The shock spoiled my carefully composed expression. 
“There’s more?” 

471 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well,” he said, and his face was calculating. “If you’re 
my wife, then what’s mine is yours ... like tuition 
money. So there would be no problem with 
Dartmouth.” 

“Anything else? While you’re already being absurd?” 

“I wouldn’t mind some time.” 

“No. No time. That’s a deal breaker right there.” 

He sighed longingly. “Just a year or two?” 

I shook my head, my lips set in a stubborn frown. 
“Move along to the next one.” 

“That’s it. Unless you’d like to talk cars ...” 

He grinned widely when I grimaced, then took my 
hand and began playing with my fingers. 

“I didn’t realize there was anything else you wanted 
besides being transformed into a monster yourself. 

I’m extremely curious.” His voice was low and soft. 

The slight edge would have been hard to detect if I 
hadn’t known it so well. 

I paused, staring at his hand on mine. I still didn’t 
know how to begin. I felt his eyes watching me and I 
was afraid to look up. The blood began to burn in my 
face. 

His cool fingers brushed my cheek. “You’re blushing?” 
he asked in surprise. I kept my eyes down. “Please, 
Bella, the suspense is painful.” 

I bit my lip. 



472 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella.” His tone reproached me now, reminded me 
that it was hard for him when I kept my thoughts to 
myself. 

“Well, I’m a little worried ... about after,” I admitted, 
finally looking at him. 

I felt his body tense, but his voice was gentle and 
velvet. “What has you worried?” 

“All of you just seem so convinced that the only thing 
I’m going to be interested in, afterward, is 
slaughtering everyone in town,” I confessed, while he 
winced at my choice of words. “And I’m afraid I’ll be 
so preoccupied with the mayhem that I won’t be me 
anymore ... and that I won’t ... I won’t want you the 
same way I do now.” 

“Bella, that part doesn’t last forever,” he assured me. 
He was missing the point. 

“Edward,” I said, nervous, staring at a freckle on my 
wrist. “There’s something that I want to do before I’m 
not human anymore.” 

He waited for me to continue. I didn’t. My face was all 
hot. 

“Whatever you want,” he encouraged, anxious and 
completely clueless. 

“Do you promise?” I muttered, knowing my attempt to 
trap him with his words was not going to work, but 
unable to resist. 

“Yes,” he said. I looked up to see that his eyes were 
earnest and confused. “Tell me what you want, and 
you can have it.” 

473 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I couldn’t believe how awkward and idiotic I felt. I was 
too innocent — which was, of course, central to the 
discussion. I didn’t have the faintest idea how to be 
seductive. I would just have to settle for flushed and 
self-conscious. 

“You,” I mumbled almost incoherently. 

“I’m yours.” He smiled, still oblivious, trying to hold 
my gaze as I looked away again. 

I took a deep breath and shifted forward so that I was 
kneeling on the bed. Then I wrapped my arms around 
his neck and kissed him. 

He kissed me back, bewildered but willing. His lips 
were gentle against mine, and I could tell his mind 
was elsewhere — trying to figure out what was on my 
mind. I decided he needed a hint. 

My hands were slightly shaky as I unlocked my arms 
from around his neck. My fingers slid down his neck 
to the collar of his shirt. The trembling didn’t help as I 
tried to hurry to undo the buttons before he stopped 
me. 

His lips froze, and I could almost hear the click in his 
head as he put together my words and my actions. 

He pushed me away at once, his face heavily 
disapproving. 

“Be reasonable, Bella.” 

“You promised — whatever I wanted,” I reminded him 
without hope. 



474 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“We’re not having this discussion.” He glared at me 
while he refastened the two buttons I’d managed to 
open. 

My teeth clamped together. 

“I say we are,” I growled. I moved my hands to my 
blouse and yanked open the top button. 

He grabbed my wrists and pinned them to my sides. 

“I say we’re not,” he said flatly. 

We glowered at each other. 

“You wanted to know,” I pointed out. 

“I thought it would be something faintly realistic.” 

“So you can ask for any stupid, ridiculous thing you 
want — like getting married — but I’m not allowed to 
even discuss what I — ” 

While I was ranting, he pulled my hands together to 
restrain them in just one of his, and put his other 
hand over my mouth. 

“No.” His face was hard. 

I took a deep breath to steady myself. And, as the 
anger began to fade, I felt something else. 

It took me a minute to recognize why I was staring 
down again, the blush returning — why my stomach 
felt uneasy, why there was too much moisture in my 
eyes, why I suddenly wanted to run from the room. 

Rejection washed through me, instinctive and strong. 



475 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I knew it was irrational. He’d been very clear on other 
occasions that my safety was the only factor. Yet I’d 
never made myself quite so vulnerable before. I 
scowled at the golden comforter that matched his 
eyes and tried to banish the reflex reaction that told 
me I was unwanted and unwantable. 

Edward sighed. The hand over my mouth moved 
under my chin, and he pulled my face up until I had 
to look at him. 

“What now?” 

“Nothing,” I mumbled. 

He scrutinized my face for long moment while I tried 
unsuccessfully to twist away from his gaze. His brow 
furrowed, and his expression became horrified. 

“Did I hurt your feelings?” he asked, shocked. 

“No,” I lied. 

So quickly that I wasn’t even sure how it happened, I 
was in his arms, my face cradled between his 
shoulder and his hand, while his thumb stroked 
reassuringly against my cheek. 

“You know why I have to say no,” he murmured. “You 
know that I want you, too.” 

“Do you?” I whispered, my voice full of doubt. 

“Of course I do, you silly, beautiful, oversensitive girl.” 
He laughed once, and then his voice was bleak. 
“Doesn’t everyone? I feel like there’s a line behind me, 
jockeying for position, waiting for me to make a big 
enough mistake... . You’re too desirable for your own 
good.” 

476 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Who’s being silly now?” I doubted if awkward, self- 
conscious, and inept added up to desirable in 
anyone’s book. 

“Do I have to send a petition around to get you to 
believe? Shall I tell you whose names would be on the 
top of the list? You know a few of them, but some 
might surprise you.” 

I shook my head against his chest, grimacing. “You’re 
just trying to distract me. Let’s get back to the 
subject.” 

He sighed. 

“Tell me if I have anything wrong.” I tried to sound 
detached. “Your demands are marriage” — I couldn’t 
say the word without making a face — “paying my 
tuition, more time, and you wouldn’t mind if my 
vehicle went a little faster.” I raised my eyebrows. “Did 
I get everything? That’s a hefty list.” 

“Only the first is a demand.” He seemed to be having 
a hard time keeping a straight face. “The others are 
merely requests.” 

“And my lone, solitary little demand is — ” 

“Demand?” he interrupted, suddenly serious again. 
“Yes, demand.” 

His eyes narrowed. 

“Getting married is a stretch for me. I’m not giving in 
unless I get something in return.” 



477 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He leaned down to whisper in my ear. “No,” he 
murmured silkily. “It’s not possible now. Later, when 
you’re less breakable. Be patient, Bella.” 

I tried to keep my voice firm and reasonable. “But 
that’s the problem. It won’t be the same when I’m less 
breakable. I won’t be the same! I don’t know who I’ll 
be then.” 

“You’ll still be Bella,” he promised. 

I frowned. “If I’m so far gone that I’d want to kill 
Charlie — that I’d drink Jacob’s blood or Angela’s if I 
got the chance — how can that be true?” 

“It will pass. And I doubt you’ll want to drink the 
dog’s blood.” He pretended to shudder at the thought. 
“Even as a newborn, you’ll have better taste than 
that.” 

I ignored his attempt to sidetrack me. “But that will 
always be what I want most, won’t it?” I challenged. 
“Blood, blood, and more blood!” 

“The fact that you are still alive is proof that that is 
not true,” he pointed out. 

“Over eighty years later,” I reminded him. “What I 
meant was physically, though. Intellectually, I know 
I’ll be able to be myself ... after a while. But just 
purely physically — I will always be thirsty, more 
than anything else.” 

He didn’t answer. 

“So I will be different,” I concluded unopposed. 
“Because right now, physically, there’s nothing I want 
more than you. More than food or water or oxygen. 



478 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Intellectually, I have my priorities in a slightly more 
sensible order. But physically ...” 

I twisted my head to kiss the palm of his hand. 

He took a deep breath. I was surprised that it 
sounded a little unsteady. 

“Bella, I could kill you,” he whispered. 

“I don’t think you could.” 

Edward’s eyes tightened. He lifted his hand from my 
face and reached quickly behind himself for 
something I couldn’t see. There was a muffled 
snapping sound, and the bed quivered beneath us. 

Something dark was in his hand; he held it up for my 
curious examination. It was a metal flower, one of the 
roses that adorned the wrought iron posts and 
canopy of his bed frame. His hand closed for a brief 
second, his fingers contracting gently, and then it 
opened again. 

Without a word, he offered me the crushed, uneven 
lump of black metal. It was a cast of the inside of his 
hand, like a piece of play dough squeezed in a child’s 
fist. A half-second passed, and the shape crumbled 
into black sand in his palm. 

I glared. “That’s not what I meant. I already know how 
strong you are. You didn’t have to break the 
furniture.” 

“What did you mean then?” he asked in a dark voice, 
tossing the handful of iron sand to the corner of the 
room; it hit the wall with a sound like rain. 



479 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His eyes were intent on my face as I struggled to 
explain. 

“Obviously not that you aren’t physically able hurt 
me, if you wanted to ... More that, you don’t want to 
hurt me ... so much so that I don’t think that you ever 
could.” 

He started shaking his head before I was done. 

“It might not work like that, Bella.” 

“Might,” I scoffed. “You have no more idea what you’re 
talking about than I do.” 

“Exactly. Do you imagine I would ever take that kind 
of risk with you?” 

I stared into his eyes for a long minute. There was no 
sign of compromise, no hint of indecision in them. 

“Please,” I finally whispered, hopeless. “It’s all I want. 
Please.” I closed my eyes in defeat, waiting for the 
quick and final no. 

But he didn’t answer immediately. I hesitated in 
disbelief, stunned to hear that his breathing was 
uneven again. 

I opened my eyes, and his face was torn. 

“Please?” I whispered again, my heartbeat picking up 
speed. My words tumbled out as I rushed to take 
advantage of the sudden uncertainty in his eyes. “You 
don’t have to make me any guarantees. If it doesn’t 
work out right, well, then that’s that. Just let us try 
... only try. And I’ll give you what you want,” I 
promised rashly. “I’ll marry you. I’ll let you pay for 
Dartmouth, and I won’t complain about the bribe to 
480 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




get me in. You can even buy me a fast car if that 
makes you happy! Just ... please.” 



His icy arms tightened around me, and his lips were 
at my ear; his cool breath made me shiver. “This is 
unbearable. So many things I’ve wanted to give you — 
and this is what you decide to demand. Do you have 
any idea how painful it is, trying to refuse you when 
you plead with me this way?” 

“Then don’t refuse,” I suggested breathlessly. 

He didn’t respond. 

“Please,” I tried again. 

“Bella ...” He shook his head slowly, but it didn’t feel 
like a denial as his face, his lips, moved back and 
forth across my throat. It felt more like surrender. My 
heart, racing already, spluttered frantically. 

Again, I took what advantage I could. When his face 
turned toward mine with the slow movement of his 
indecision, I twisted quickly in his arms till my lips 
reached his. His hands seized my face, and I thought 
he was going to push me away again. 

I was wrong. 

His mouth was not gentle; there was a brand-new 
edge of conflict and desperation in the way his lips 
moved. I locked my arms around his neck, and, to my 
suddenly overheated skin, his body felt colder than 
ever. I trembled, but it was not from the chill. 

He didn’t stop kissing me. I was the one who had to 
break away, gasping for air. Even then his lips did not 
leave my skin, they just moved to my throat. The 
thrill of victory was a strange high; it made me feel 

481 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




powerful. Brave. My hands weren’t unsteady now; I 
got through with the buttons on his shirt this time 
easily, and my fingers traced the perfect planes of his 
icy chest. He was too beautiful. What was the word 
he’d used just now? Unbearable — that was it. His 
beauty was too much to bear. . . . 

I pulled his mouth back to mine, and he seemed just 
as eager as I was. One of his hands still cupped my 
face, his other arm was tight around my waist, 
straining me closer to him. It made it slightly more 
difficult as I tried to reach the front of my shirt, but 
not impossible. 

Cold iron fetters locked around my wrists, and pulled 
my hands above my head, which was suddenly on a 
pillow. 

His lips were at my ear again. “Bella,” he murmured, 
his voice warm and velvet. “Would you please stop 
trying to take your clothes off?” 

“Do you want to do that part?” I asked, confused. 

“Not tonight,” he answered softly. His lips were slower 
now against my cheek and jaw, all the urgency gone. 

“Edward, don’t — ,” I started to argue. 

“I’m not saying no,” he reassured me. “I’m just saying 
not tonight.” 

I thought about that while my breathing slowed. 

“Give me one good reason why tonight is not as good 
as any other night.” I was still breathless; it made the 
frustration in my voice less impressive. 



482 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I wasn’t born yesterday.” He chuckled in my ear. 

“Out of the two of us, which do you think is more 
unwilling to give the other what they want? You just 
promised to marry me before you do any changing, 
but if I give in tonight, what guarantee do I have that 
you won’t go running off to Carlisle in the morning? I 
am — clearly — much less reluctant to give you what 
you want. Therefore ... you first.” 

I exhaled with a loud huff. “I have to marry you first?” 
I asked in disbelief. 

“That’s the deal — take it or leave it. Compromise, 
remember?” 

His arms wrapped around me, and he began kissing 
me in a way that should be illegal. Too persuasive — 
it was duress, coercion. I tried to keep a clear head ... 
and failed quickly and absolutely. 

“I think that’s a really bad idea,” I gasped when he let 
me breathe. 

“I’m not surprised you feel that way.” He smirked. 
“You have a one-track mind.” 

“How did this happen?” I grumbled. “I thought I was 
holding my own tonight — for once — and now, all of 
a sudden — ” 

“You’re engaged,” he finished. 

“Ew! Please don’t say that out loud.” 

“Are you going back on your word?” he demanded. He 
pulled away to read my face. His expression was 
entertained. He was having fun. 



483 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I glared at him, trying to ignore the way his smile 
made my heart react. 

“Are you?” he pressed. 

“Ugh!” I groaned. “No. I’m not. Are you happy now?” 
His smile was blinding. “Exceptionally.” 

I groaned again. 

“Aren’t you happy at all?” 

He kissed me again before I could answer. Another 
too-persuasive kiss. 

“A little bit,” I admitted when I could speak. “But not 
about getting married.” 

He kissed me another time. “Do you get the feeling 
that everything is backward?” he laughed in my ear. 
“Traditionally, shouldn’t you be arguing my side, and 
I yours?” 

“There isn’t much that’s traditional about you and 
me.” 

“True.” 

He kissed me again, and kept going until my heart 
was racing and my skin was flushed. 

“Look, Edward,” I murmured, my voice wheedling, 
when he paused to kiss the palm of my hand. “I said I 
would marry you, and I will. I promise. I swear. If you 
want, I’ll sign a contract in my own blood.” 

“Not funny,” he murmured against the inside of my 
wrist. 

484 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What I’m saying is this — I’m not going to trick you 
or anything. You know me better than that. So there’s 
really no reason to wait. We’re completely alone — 
how often does that happen? — and you’ve provided 
this very large and comfortable bed... .” 

“Not tonight,” he said again. 

“Don’t you trust me?” 

“Of course I do.” 

Using the hand that he was still kissing, I pulled his 
face back up to where I could see his expression. 

“Then what’s the problem? It’s not like you didn’t 
know you were going to win in the end.” I frowned 
and muttered, “You always win.” 

“Just hedging my bets,” he said calmly. 

“There’s something else,” I guessed, my eyes 
narrowing. There was a defensiveness about his face, 
a faint hint of some secret motive he was trying to 
hide behind his casual manner. “Are you planning to 
go back on your word?” 

“No,” he promised solemnly. “I swear to you, we will 
try. After you marry me.” 

I shook my head, and laughed glumly. “You make me 
feel like a villain in a melodrama — twirling my 
mustache while I try to steal some poor girl’s virtue.” 

His eyes were wary as they flashed across my face, 
then he quickly ducked down to press his lips against 
my collarbone. 



485 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s it, isn’t it?” The short laugh that escaped me 
was more shocked than amused. “You’re trying to 
protect your virtue!” I covered my mouth with my 
hand to muffle the giggle that followed. The words 
were so ... old-fashioned. 

“No, silly girl,” he muttered against my shoulder. “I’m 
trying to protect yours. And you’re making it 
shockingly difficult.” 

“Of all the ridiculous — ” 

“Let me ask you something,” he interrupted quickly. 
“We’ve had this discussion before, but humor me. 
How many people in this room have a soul? A shot at 
heaven, or whatever there is after this life?” 

“Two,” I answered immediately, my voice fierce. 

“All right. Maybe that’s true. Now, there’s a world full 
of dissension about this, but the vast majority seem 
to think that there are some rules that have to be 
followed.” 

“Vampire rules aren’t enough for you? You want to 
worry about the human ones too?” 

“It couldn’t hurt.” He shrugged. “Just in case.” 

I glared at him through narrowed eyes. 

“Now, of course, it might be too late for me, even if 
you are right about my soul.” 

“No, it isn’t,” I argued angrily. 

“Thou shalt not kill’ is commonly accepted by most 
major belief systems. And I’ve killed a lot of people, 
Bella.” 

486 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Only the bad ones.” 

He shrugged. “Maybe that counts, maybe it doesn’t. 
But you haven’t killed anyone — ” 

“That you know about,” I muttered. 

He smiled, but otherwise ignored the interruption. 
“And I’m going to do my best to keep you out of 
temptation’s way.” 

“Okay. But we weren’t fighting over committing 
murder,” I reminded him. 

“The same principle applies — the only difference is 
that this is the one area in which I’m just as spotless 
as you are. Can’t I leave one rule unbroken?” 

“One?” 

“You know that I’ve stolen, I’ve lied, I’ve coveted ... my 
virtue is all I have left.” He grinned crookedly. 

“I lie all the time.” 

“Yes, but you’re such a bad liar that it doesn’t really 
count. Nobody believes you.” 

“I really hope you’re wrong about that — because 
otherwise Charlie is about to burst through the door 
with a loaded gun.” 

“Charlie is happier when he pretends to swallow your 
stories. He’d rather lie to himself than look too 
closely.” He grinned at me. 

“But what did you ever covet?” I asked doubtfully. 
“You have everything.” 



487 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I coveted you.” His smile darkened. “I had no right to 
want you — but I reached out and took you anyway. 
And now look what’s become of you! Trying to seduce 
a vampire.” He shook his head in mock horror. 

“You can covet what’s already yours,” I informed him. 
“Besides, I thought it was my virtue you were worried 
about.” 

“It is. If it’s too late for me ... Well, I’ll be damned — 
no pun intended — if I’ll let them keep you out, too.” 

“You can’t make me go somewhere you won’t be,” I 
vowed. “That’s my definition of hell. Anyway, I have 
an easy solution to all this: let’s never die, all right?” 

“Sounds simple enough. Why didn’t I think of that?” 

He smiled at me until I gave up with an angry 
humph. “So that’s it. You won’t sleep with me until 
we’re married.” 

“Technically, I can’t ever sleep with you.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Very mature, Edward.” 

“But, other than that detail, yes, you’ve got it right.” 

“I think you have an ulterior motive.” 

His eyes widened innocently. “Another one?” 

“You know this will speed things up,” I accused. 

He tried not to smile. “There is only one thing I want 
to speed up, and the rest can wait forever . . . but for 
that, it’s true, your impatient human hormones are 
my most powerful ally at this point.” 



488 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I can’t believe I’m going along with this. When I think 
of Charlie ... and Renee! Can you imagine what 
Angela will think? Or Jessica? Ugh. I can hear the 
gossip now.” 

He raised one eyebrow at me, and I knew why. What 
did it matter what they said about me when I leaving 
soon and not coming back? Was I really so 
oversensitive that I couldn’t bear a few weeks of 
sidelong glances and leading questions? 

Maybe it wouldn’t bug me so much if I didn’t know 
that I would probably be gossiping just as 
condescendingly as the rest of them if it was someone 
else getting married this summer. 

Gah. Married this summer! I shuddered. 

And then, maybe it wouldn’t bug me so much if I 
hadn’t been raised to shudder at the thought of 
marriage. 

Edward interrupted my fretting. “It doesn’t have to be 
a big production. I don’t need any fanfare. You won’t 
have to tell anyone or make any changes. We’ll go to 
Vegas — you can wear old jeans and we’ll go to the 
chapel with the drive-through window. I just want it 
to be official — that you belong to me and no one 
else.” 

“It couldn’t be any more official than it already is,” I 
grumbled. But his description didn’t sound that bad. 
Only Alice would be disappointed. 

“Well see about that.” He smiled complacently. “I 
suppose you don’t want your ring now?” 

I had to swallow before I could speak. “You suppose 
correctly.” 

489 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed at my expression. “That’s fine. I’ll get it on 
your finger soon enough.” 

I glared at him. “You talk like you already have one.” 

“I do,” he said, unashamed. “Ready to force upon you 
at the first sign of weakness.” 

“You’re unbelievable.” 

“Do you want to see it?” he asked. His liquid topaz 
eyes were suddenly shining with excitement. 

“No!” I almost shouted, a reflex reaction. I regretted it 
at once. His face fell ever so slightly. “Unless you 
really want to show it to me,” I amended. I gritted my 
teeth together to keep my illogical terror from 
showing. 

“That’s all right,” he shrugged. “It can wait.” 

I sighed. “Show me the damn ring, Edward.” 

He shook his head. “No.” 

I studied his expression for a long minute. 

“Please?” I asked quietly, experimenting with my 
newly discovered weapon. I touched his face lightly 
with the tips of my fingers. “Please can I see it?” 

His eyes narrowed. “You are the most dangerous 
creature I’ve ever met,” he muttered. But he got up 
and moved with unconscious grace to kneel next to 
the small bedside table. He was back on the bed with 
me in an instant, sitting beside me with one arm 
around my shoulder. In his other hand was a little 
black box. He balanced it on my left knee. 



490 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Go ahead and look, then,” he said brusquely. 



It was harder than it should have been to pick up the 
inoffensive little box, but I didn’t want to hurt him 
again, so I tried to keep my hand from shaking. The 
surface was smooth with black satin. I brushed my 
fingers over it, hesitating. 

“You didn’t spend a lot of money, did you? Lie to me, 
if you did.” 

“I didn’t spend anything,” he assured me. “It’s just 
another hand-me-down. This is the ring my father 
gave to my mother.” 

“Oh.” Surprise colored my voice. I pinched the lid 
between my thumb and forefinger, but didn’t open it. 

“I supposed it’s a little outdated.” His tone was 
playfully apologetic. “Old-fashioned, just like me. I 
can get you something more modern. Something from 
Tiffany’s?” 

“I like old-fashioned things,” I mumbled as I 
hesitantly lifted the lid. 

Nestled into the black satin, Elizabeth Masen’s ring 
sparkled in the dim light. The face was a long oval, 
set with slanting rows of glittering round stones. The 
band was gold — delicate and narrow. The gold made 
a fragile web around the diamonds. I’d never seen 
anything like it. 

Unthinkingly, I stroked the shimmering gems. 

“It’s so pretty,” I murmured to myself, surprised. 

“Do you like it?” 



491 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s beautiful.” I shrugged, feigning a lack of interest. 
“What’s not to like?” 

He chuckled. “See if it fits.” 

My left hand clenched into a fist. 

“Bella,” he sighed. “I’m not going to solder it to your 
finger. Just try it on so I can see if it needs to be 
sized. Then you can take it right off.” 

“Fine,” I grumbled. 

I reached for the ring, but his long fingers beat me 
there. He took my left hand in his, and slid the ring 
into place on my third finger. He held my hand out, 
and we both examined the oval sparkling against my 
skin. It wasn’t quite as awful as I’d feared, having it 
there. 

“A perfect fit,” he said indifferently. “That’s nice — 
saves me a trip to the jeweler’s.” 

I could hear some strong emotion burning under the 
casual tone of his voice, and I stared up at his face. It 
was there in his eyes, too, visible despite the careful 
nonchalance of his expression. 

“You like that, don’t you?” I asked suspiciously, 
fluttering my fingers and thinking that it was really 
too bad that I had not broken my left hand. 

He shrugged his shoulders. “Sure,” he said, still 
casual. “It looks very nice on you.” 

I stared into his eyes, trying to decipher the emotion 
that smoldered just under the surface. He gazed 
back, and the casual pretense suddenly slipped away. 
He was glowing — his angel’s face brilliant with joy 

492 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




and victory. He was so glorious that it knocked me 
breathless. 

Before I could catch that breath, he was kissing me, 
his lips exultant. I was lightheaded when he moved 
his mouth to whisper in my ear — but his breathing 
was just as ragged as mine. 

“Yes, I like it. You have no idea.” 

I laughed, gasping a little. “I believe you.” 

“Do you mind if I do something?” he murmured, his 
arms tightening around me. 

“Anything you want.” 

But he let me go and slid away. 

“Anything but that,” I complained. 

He ignored me, taking my hand and pulling me off the 
bed, too. He stood in front of me, hands on my 
shoulders, face serious. 

“Now, I want to do this right. Please, please, keep in 
mind that you’ve already agreed to this, and don’t 
ruin it for me.” 

“Oh, no,” I gasped as he slid down onto one knee. 

“Be nice,” he muttered. 

I took a deep breath. 

“Isabella Swan?” He looked up at me through his 
impossibly long lashes, his golden eyes soft but, 
somehow, still scorching. “I promise to love you 



493 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




forever — every single day of forever. Will you marry 
me?” 

There were many things I wanted to say, some of 
them not nice at all, and others more disgustingly 
gooey and romantic than he probably dreamed I was 
capable of. Rather than embarrass myself with either, 
I whispered, “Yes.” 

“Thank you,” he said simply. He took my left hand 
and kissed each of my fingertips before he kissed the 
ring that was now mine. 



494 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





I hated to waste any part of the night in sleep, but 
that was inevitable. The sun was bright outside the 
window-wall when I woke, with small clouds scuttling 
too quickly across the sky. The wind rocked the 
treetops till the whole forest looked as if it was going 
to shake apart. 

He left me alone to get dressed, and I appreciated the 
chance to think. Somehow, my plan for last night had 
gone horribly awry, and I needed come to grips with 
the consequences. Though I’d given back the hand- 
me-down ring as soon as I could do it without hurting 
his feelings, my left hand felt heavier, like it was still 
in place, just invisible. 

This shouldn’t bother me, I reasoned. It was no big 
thing — a road trip to Vegas. I would go one better 
than old jeans — I would wear old sweats. The 
ceremony certainly couldn’t take very long; no more 
than fifteen minutes at the most, right? So I could 
handle that. 

And then, when it was over, he’d have to fulfill his 
side of the bargain. I would concentrate on that, and 
forget the rest. 

He said I didn’t have to tell anyone, and I was 
planning to hold him to that. Of course, it was very 
stupid of me not to think of Alice. 

The Cullens got home around noon. There was a new, 
businesslike feel to the atmosphere around them, and 
it pulled me back into the enormity of what was 
coming. 

495 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



Alice seemed to be in an unusually bad mood. I 
chalked it up to her frustration with feeling normal, 
because her first words to Edward were a complaint 
about working with the wolves. 

“I think” — she made a face as she used the 
uncertain word — “that you’re going to want to pack 
for cold weather, Edward. I can’t see where you are 
exactly, because you’re taking off with that dog this 
afternoon. But the storm that’s coming seems 
particularly bad in that general area.” 

Edward nodded. 

“It’s going to snow on the mountains,” she warned 
him. 

“Ew, snow,” I muttered to myself. It was June, for 
crying out loud. 

“Wear a jacket,” Alice told me. Her voice was 
unfriendly, and that surprised me. I tried to read her 
face, but she turned away. 

I looked at Edward, and he was smiling; whatever was 
bugging Alice amused him. 

Edward had more than enough camping gear to 
choose from — props in the human charade; the 
Cullens were good customers at the Newton’s store. 

He grabbed a down sleeping bag, a small tent, and 
several packets of dehydrated food — grinning when I 
made a face at them — and stuffed them all in a 
backpack. 

Alice wandered into the garage while we were there, 
watching Edward’s preparations without a word. He 
ignored her. 



496 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




When he was done packing, Edward handed me his 
phone. “Why don’t you call Jacob and tell him we’ll be 
ready for him in an hour or so. He knows where to 
meet us.” 

Jacob wasn’t home, but Billy promised to call around 
until he could find an available werewolf to pass the 
news to. 

“Don’t you worry about Charlie, Bella,” Billy said. “I’ve 
got my part of this under control.” 

“Yeah, I know Charlie’ll be fine.” I didn’t feel so 
confident about his son’s safety, but I didn’t add that. 

“I wish I could be with the rest of them tomorrow.” 
Billy chuckled regretfully. “Being an old man is a 
hardship, Bella.” 

The urge to fight must be a defining characteristic of 
the Y chromosome. They were all the same. 

“Have fun with Charlie.” 

“Good luck, Bella,” he answered. “And ... pass that 
along to the, er, Cullens for me.” 

“I will,” I promised, surprised by the gesture. 

As I gave the phone back to Edward, I saw that he 
and Alice were having some kind of silent discussion. 
She was staring at him, pleading in her eyes. He was 
frowning back, unhappy with whatever she wanted. 

“Billy said to tell you ‘good luck. ’” 

“That was generous of him,” Edward said, breaking 
away from her. 



497 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Bella, could I please speak to you alone?” Alice asked 
swiftly. 

“You’re about to make my life harder than it needs to 
be, Alice,” Edward warned her through his teeth. “I’d 
really rather you didn’t.” 

“This isn’t about you, Edward,” she shot back. 

He laughed. Something about her response was funny 
to him. 

“It’s not,” Alice insisted. “This is a female thing.” 

He frowned. 

“Let her talk to me,” I told him. I was curious. 

“You asked for it,” he muttered. He laughed again — 
half angry, half amused — and strode out of the 
garage. 

I turned to Alice, worried now, but she didn’t look at 
me. Her bad mood hadn’t passed yet. 

She went to sit on the hood of her Porsche, her face 
dejected. I followed, and leaned against the bumper 
beside her. 

“Bella?” Alice asked in a sad voice, shifting over and 
curling up against my side. Her voice sounded so 
miserable that I wrapped my arms around her 
shoulders in comfort. 

“What’s wrong, Alice?” 

“Don’t you love me?” she asked in that same sad tone. 

“Of course I do. You know that.” 

498 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Then why do I see you sneaking off to Vegas to get 
married without inviting me?” 

“Oh,” I muttered, my cheeks turning pink. I could see 
that I had seriously hurt her feelings, and I hurried to 
defend myself. “You know how I hate to make a big 
deal out of things. It was Edward’s idea, anyway.” 

“I don’t care whose idea it was. How could you do this 
to me? I expect that kind of thing from Edward, but 
not from you. I love you like you were my own sister.” 

“To me, Alice, you are my sister.” 

“Words!” she growled. 

“Fine, you can come. There won’t be much to see.” 

She was still grimacing. 

“What?” I demanded. 

“How much do you love me, Bella?” 

“Why?” 

She stared at me with pleading eyes, her long black 
eyebrows slanting up in the middle and pulling 
together, her lips trembling at the corners. It was a 
heart-breaking expression. 

“Please, please, please,” she whispered. “Please, Bella, 
please — if you really love me . . . Please let me do your 
wedding.” 

“Aw, Alice!” I groaned, pulling away and standing up. 
“No! Don’t do this to me.” 

“If you really, truly love me, Bella.” 

499 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I folded my arms across my chest. “That is so unfair. 
And Edward kind of already used that one on me.” 

“I’ll bet Edward would like it better if you did this 
traditionally, though he’d never tell you that. And 
Esme — think what it would mean to her!” 

I groaned. “I’d rather face the newborns alone.” 

“I’ll owe you for a decade.” 

“You’d owe me for a century!” 

Her eyes glowed. “Is that a yes?” 

“No! I don’t want to do this!” 

“You won’t have to do anything but walk a few yards 
and then repeat after the minister.” 

“Ugh! Ugh, ugh!” 

“Please?” She started bouncing in place. “Please, 
please, please, please, please?” 

“I’ll never, never ever forgive you for this, Alice.” 

“Yay!” she squealed, clapping her hands together. 

“That’s not a yes!” 

“But it will be,” she sang. 

“Edward!” I yelled, stalking out of the garage. “I know 
you’re listening. Get over here.” Alice was right behind 
me, still clapping. 

“Thanks so much, Alice,” Edward said acidly, coming 
from behind me. I turned to let him have it, but his 

500 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




expression was so worried and upset that I couldn’t 
speak my complaints. I threw my arms around him 
instead, hiding my face, just in case the angry 
moisture in my eyes made it look like I was crying. 

“Vegas,” Edward promised in my ear. 

“Not a chance,” Alice gloated. “Bella would never do 
that to me. You know, Edward, as a brother, you are 
sometimes a disappointment.” 

“Don’t be mean,” I grumbled at her. “He’s trying to 
make me happy, unlike you.” 

“I’m trying to make you happy, too, Bella. It’s just 
that I know better what will make you happy ... in the 
long run. You’ll thank me for this. Maybe not for fifty 
years, but definitely someday.” 

“I never thought I’d see the day where I’d be willing to 
take a bet against you, Alice, but it has arrived.” 

She laughed her silvery laugh. “So, are you going to 
show me the ring?” 

I grimaced in horror as she grabbed my left hand and 
then dropped it just as quickly. 

“Huh. I saw him put it on you... . Did I miss 
something?” she asked. She concentrated for half a 
second, furrowing her brow, before she answered her 
own questions. “No. Wedding’s still on.” 

“Bella has issues with jewelry,” Edward explained. 

“What’s one more diamond? Well, I guess the ring has 
lots of diamonds, but my point is that he’s already got 
one on — ” 



501 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Enough, Alice!” Edward cut her off suddenly. The 
way he glared at her ... he looked like a vampire 
again. “We’re in a hurry.” 

“I don’t understand. What’s that about diamonds?” I 
asked. 

“Well talk about it later,” Alice said. “Edward is right 
— you’d better get going. You’ve got to set a trap and 
make camp before the storm comes.” She frowned, 
and her expression was anxious, almost nervous. 
“Don’t forget your coat, Bella. It seems ... 
unseasonably cold.” 

“I’ve already got it,” Edward assured her. 

“Have a nice night,” she told us in farewell. 

It was twice as far to the clearing as usual; Edward 
took a long detour, making sure my scent would be 
nowhere near the trail Jacob would hide later. He 
carried me in his arms, the bulky backpack in my 
usual spot. 

He stopped at the farthest end of the clearing and set 
me on my feet. 

“All right. Just walk north for a ways, touching as 
much as you can. Alice gave me a clear picture of 
their path, and it won’t take long for us to intersect 
it.” 

“North?” 

He smiled and pointed out the right direction. 

I wandered into the woods, leaving the clear yellow 
light of the strangely sunny day in the clearing behind 
me. Maybe Alice’s blurred sight would be wrong about 

502 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




the snow. I hoped so. The sky was mostly clear, 
though the wind whipped furiously through the open 
spaces. In the trees it was calmer, but much too cold 
for June — even in a long-sleeved shirt with a thick 
sweater over the top, there were goose bumps on my 
arms. I walked slowly, trailing my fingers over 
anything close enough: the rough tree bark, the wet 
ferns, the moss-covered rocks. 

Edward stayed with me, walking a parallel line about 
twenty yards away. 

“Am I doing this right?” I called. 

“Perfectly.” 

I had an idea. “Will this help?” I asked as I ran my 
fingers through my hair and caught a few loose 
strands. I draped them over the ferns. 

“Yes, that does make the trail stronger. But you don’t 
need to pull your hair out, Bella. It will be fine.” 

“I’ve got a few extras I can spare.” 

It was gloomy under the trees, and I wished I could 
walk closer to Edward and hold his hand. 

I wedged another hair into a broken branch that cut 
through my path. 

“You don’t need to let Alice have her way, you know,” 
Edward said. 

“Don’t worry about it, Edward. I’m not going to leave 
you at the altar, regardless.” I had a sinking feeling 
that Alice was going to get her way, mostly because 
she was totally unscrupulous when there was 



503 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




something she wanted, and also because I was a 
sucker for guilt trips. 

“That’s not what I’m worried about. I want this to be 
what you want it to be.” 

I repressed a sigh. It would hurt his feelings if I told 
the truth — that it didn’t really matter, because it was 
all just varying degrees of awful anyway. 

“Well, even if she does get her way, we can keep it 
small. Just us. Emmett can get a clerical license off 
the Internet.” 

I giggled. “That does sound better.” It wouldn’t feel 
very official if Emmett read the vows, which was a 
plus. But I’d have a hard time keeping a straight face. 

“See,” he said with a smile. “There’s always a 
compromise.” 

It took a while for me to reach the spot where the 
newborn army would be certain to cross my trail, but 
Edward never got impatient with my pace. 

He had to lead a bit more on the way back, to keep 
me on the same path. It all looked alike to me. 

We were almost to the clearing when I fell. I could see 
the wide opening ahead, and that’s probably why I got 
too eager and forgot to watch my feet. I caught myself 
before my head bashed into the nearest tree, but a 
small branch snapped off under my left hand and 
gouged into my palm. 

“Ouch! Oh, fabulous,” I muttered. 

“Are you all right?” 



504 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm fine. Stay where you are. I’m bleeding. It will stop 
in a minute.” 

He ignored me. He was right there before I could 
finish. 

“I’ve got a first aid kit,” he said, pulling off the 
backpack. “I had a feeling I might need it.” 

“It’s not bad. I can take care of it — you don’t have to 
make yourself uncomfortable.” 

“I’m not uncomfortable,” he said calmly. “Here — let 
me clean it.” 

“Wait a second, I just got another idea.” 

Without looking at the blood and breathing through 
my mouth, just in case my stomach might react, I 
pressed my hand against a rock within my reach. 

“What are you doing?” 

“Jasper will love this,” I muttered to myself. I started 
for the clearing again, pressing my palm against 
everything in my path. “I’ll bet this really gets them 
going.” 

Edward sighed. 

“Hold your breath,” I told him. 

“I’m fine. I just think you’re going overboard.” 

“This is all I get to do. I want to do a good job.” 

We broke through the last of the trees as I spoke. I let 
my injured hand graze across the ferns. 



505 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, you have,” Edward assured me. “The newborns 
will be frantic, and Jasper will be very impressed with 
your dedication. Now let me treat your hand — you’ve 
gotten the cut dirty.” 

“Let me do it, please.” 

He took my hand and smiled as he examined it. “This 
doesn’t bother me anymore.” 

I watched him carefully as he cleaned the gash, 
looking for some sign of distress. He continued to 
breathe evenly in and out, the same small smile on 
his lips. 

“Why not?” I finally asked as he smoothed a bandage 
across my palm. 

He shrugged. “I got over it.” 

“You . . . got over it? When? How?” I tried to remember 
the last time he’d held his breath around me. All I 
could think of was my wretched birthday party last 
September. 

Edward pursed his lips, seeming to search for the 
words. “I lived through an entire twenty-four hours 
thinking that you were dead, Bella. That changed the 
way I look at a lot of things.” 

“Did it change the way I smell to you?” 

“Not at all. But ... having experienced the way it feels 
to think I’ve lost you ... my reactions have changed. 
My entire being shies away from any course that 
could inspire that kind of pain again.” 

I didn’t know what to say to that. 



506 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He smiled at my expression. “I guess that you could 
call it a very educational experience.” 

The wind tore through the clearing then, lashing my 
hair around my face and making me shiver. 

“All right,” he said, reaching into his pack again. 
“You’ve done your part.” He pulled out my heavy 
winter jacket and held it out for me to slide my arms 
in. “Now it’s out of our hands. Let’s go camping!” 

I laughed at the mock enthusiasm in his voice. 

He took my bandaged hand — the other was in worse 
shape, still in the brace — and started toward the 
other side of the clearing. 

“Where are we meeting Jacob?” I asked. 

“Right here.” He gestured to the trees in front of us 
just as Jacob stepped warily from their shadows. 

It shouldn’t have surprised me to see him human. I 
wasn’t sure why I’d been looking for the big red- 
brown wolf. 

Jacob seemed bigger again — no doubt a product of 
my expectations; I must have unconsciously been 
hoping to see the smaller Jacob from my memory, the 
easygoing friend who hadn’t made everything so 
difficult. He had his arms folded across his bare 
chest, a jacket clutched in one fist. His face was 
expressionless as he watched us. 

Edward’s lips pulled down at the corners. “There had 
to have been a better way to do this.” 

“Too late now,” I muttered glumly. 



507 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He sighed. 



“Hey, Jake,” I greeted him when we got closer. 

“Hi, Bella.” 

“Hello, Jacob,” Edward said. 

Jacob ignored the pleasantry, all business. “Where do 
I take her?” 

Edward pulled a map from a side pocket on the pack 
and offered it to him. Jacob unfolded it. 

“We’re here now,” Edward said, reaching over to 
touch the right spot. Jacob recoiled from his hand 
automatically, and then steadied himself. Edward 
pretended not to notice. 

“And you’re taking her up here,” Edward continued, 
tracing a serpentine pattern around the elevation 
lines on the paper. “Roughly nine miles.” 

Jacob nodded once. 

“When you’re about a mile away, you should cross my 
path. That will lead you in. Do you need the map?” 

“No, thanks. I know this area pretty well. I think I 
know where I’m going.” 

Jacob seemed to have to work harder than Edward to 
keep the tone polite. 

“I’ll take a longer route,” Edward said. “And I’ll see 
you in a few hours.” 

Edward stared at me unhappily. He didn’t like this 
part of the plan. 

508 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“See you,” I murmured. 



Edward faded into the trees, heading in the opposite 
direction. 

As soon as he was gone, Jacob turned cheerful. 

“What’s up, Bella?” he asked with a big grin. 

I rolled my eyes. “Same old, same old.” 

“Yeah,” he agreed. “Bunch of vampires trying to kill 
you. The usual.” 

“The usual.” 

“Well,” he said as he shrugged into his jacket to free 
his arms. “Let’s get going.” 

Making a face, I took a small step closer to him. 

He bent down and swept his arm behind my knees, 
knocking them out from under me. His other arm 
caught me before my head hit the ground. 

“Jerk,” I muttered. 

Jacob chuckled, already running through the trees. 

He kept a steady pace, a brisk jog that a fit human 
could keep up with ... across a level plane ... if they 
weren’t burdened with a hundred-plus pounds as he 
was. 

“You don’t have to run. You’ll get tired.” 

“Running doesn’t make me tired,” he said. His 
breathing was even — like the fixed tempo of a 
marathoner. “Besides, it will be colder soon. I hope he 
gets the camp set up before we get there.” 

509 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I tapped my finger against the thick padding of his 
parka. “I thought you didn’t get cold now.” 



“I don’t. I brought this for you, just in case you 
weren’t prepared.” He looked at my jacket, almost as 
if he were disappointed that I was. “I don’t like the 
way the weather feels. It’s making me edgy. Notice 
how we haven’t seen any animals?” 

“Um, not really.” 

“I guess you wouldn’t. Your senses are too dull.” 

I let that pass. “Alice was worried about the storm, 
too.” 

“It takes a lot to silence the forest this way. You 
picked a hell of a night for a camping trip.” 

“It wasn’t entirely my idea.” 

The pathless way he took began to climb more and 
more steeply, but it didn’t slow him down. He leapt 
easily from rock to rock, not seeming to need his 
hands at all. His perfect balance reminded me of a 
mountain goat. 

“What’s with the addition to your bracelet?” he asked. 

I looked down, and realized that the crystal heart was 
facing up on my wrist. 

I shrugged guiltily. “Another graduation present.” 

He snorted. “A rock. Figures.” 

A rock? I was suddenly reminded of Alice’s unfinished 
sentence outside the garage. I stared at the bright 
white crystal and tried to remember what Alice had 

510 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




been saying before ... about diamonds. Could she 
have been trying to say he’s already got one on you? 
As in, I was already wearing one diamond from 
Edward? No, that was impossible. The heart would 
have to be five carats or something crazy like that! 
Edward wouldn’t — 

“So it’s been a while since you came down to La 
Push,” Jacob said, interrupting my disturbing 
conjectures. 

“I’ve been busy,” I told him. “And ... I probably 
wouldn’t have visited, anyway.” 

He grimaced. “I thought you were supposed to be the 
forgiving one, and I was the grudge-holder.” 

I shrugged. 

“Been thinking about that last time a lot, have you?” 
“Nope.” 

He laughed. “Either you’re lying, or you are the 
stubbornest person alive.” 

“I don’t know about the second part, but I’m not 
lying.” 

I didn’t like having this conversation under the 
present conditions — with his too-warm arms 
wrapped tightly around me and nothing at all I could 
do about it. His face was closer than I wanted it to be. 
I wished I could take a step back. 

“A smart person looks at all sides of a decision.” 

“I have,” I retorted. 



511 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“If you haven’t thought at all about our ... er, 
conversation the last time you came over, then that’s 
not true.” 

“That conversation isn’t relevant to my decision.” 

“Some people will go to any lengths to delude 
themselves.” 

“I’ve noticed that werewolves in particular are prone 
to that mistake — do you think it’s a genetic thing?” 

“Does that mean that he’s a better kisser that I am?” 
Jacob asked, suddenly glum. 

“I really couldn’t say, Jake. Edward is the only person 
I’ve ever kissed.” 

“Besides me.” 

“But I don’t count that as a kiss, Jacob. I think of it 
more as an assault.” 

“Ouch! That’s cold.” 

I shrugged. I wasn’t going to take it back. 

“I did apologize about that,” he reminded me. 

“And I forgave you ... mostly. It doesn’t change the 
way I remember it.” 

He muttered something unintelligible. 

It was quiet then for a while; there was just the sound 
of his measured breathing and the wind roaring high 
above us in the treetops. A cliff face rose sheer beside 
us, bare, rough gray stone. We followed the base as it 
curved upward out of the forest. 

512 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I still think it’s pretty irresponsible,” Jacob suddenly 
said. 



“Whatever you’re talking about, you’re wrong.” 

“Think about it, Bella. According to you, you’ve kissed 
just one person — who isn’t even really a person — in 
your whole life, and you’re calling it quits? How do 
you know that’s what you want? Shouldn’t you play 
the field a little?” 

I kept my voice cool. “I know exactly what I want.” 

“Then it couldn’t hurt to double check. Maybe you 
should try kissing someone else — just for 
comparison’s sake . . . since what happened the other 
day doesn’t count. You could kiss me, for example. I 
don’t mind if you want to use me to experiment.” 

He pulled me tighter against his chest, so that my 
face was closer to his. He was smiling at his joke, but 
I wasn’t taking any chances. 

“Don’t mess with me, Jake. I swear I won’t stop him if 
he wants to break your jaw.” 

The panicky edge to my voice made him smile wider. 
“If you ask me to kiss you, he won’t have any reason 
to get upset. He said that was fine.” 

“Don’t hold your breath, Jake — no, wait, I changed 
my mind. Go right ahead. Just hold your breath until 
I ask you to kiss me.” 

“You’re in a bad mood today.” 

“I wonder why?” 

“Sometimes I think you like me better as a wolf.” 

513 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Sometimes I do. It probably has something to do with 
the way you can’t talk.” 

He pursed his broad lips thoughtfully. “No, I don’t 
think that’s it. I think it’s easier for you to be near me 
when I’m not human, because you don’t have to 
pretend that you’re not attracted to me.” 

My mouth fell open with a little popping sound. I 
snapped it shut at once, grinding my teeth together. 

He heard that. His lips pulled tightly across his face 
in a triumphant smile. 

I took a slow breath before I spoke. “No. I’m pretty 
sure it’s because you can’t talk.” 

He sighed. “Do you ever get tired of lying to yourself? 
You have to know how aware you are of me. 

Physically, I mean.” 

“How could anyone not be aware of you physically, 
Jacob?” I demanded. “You’re an enormous monster 
who refuses to respect anyone else’s personal space.” 

“I make you nervous. But only when I’m human. 

When I’m a wolf, you’re more comfortable around 
me.” 

“Nervousness and irritation are not the same thing.” 

He stared at me for a minute, slowing to a walk, the 
amusement draining from his face. His eyes 
narrowed, turned black in the shadow of his brows. 
His breathing, so regular as he ran, started to 
accelerate. Slowly, he leaned his face closer to mine. 

I stared him down, knowing exactly what he was 
trying to do. 

514 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s your face,” I reminded him. 

He laughed loudly and started jogging again. “I don’t 
really want to fight with your vampire tonight — I 
mean, any other night, sure. But we both have a job 
to do tomorrow, and I wouldn’t want to leave the 
Cullens one short.” 

The sudden, unexpected swell of shame distorted my 
expression. 

“I know, I know,” he responded, not understanding. 
“You think he could take me.” 

I couldn’t speak. I was leaving them one short. What 
if someone got hurt because I was so weak? But what 
if I was brave and Edward ... I couldn’t even think it. 

“What’s the matter with you, Bella?” The joking 
bravado vanished from his face, revealing my Jacob 
underneath, like pulling a mask away. “If something I 
said upset you, you know I was only kidding. I didn’t 
mean anything — hey, are you okay? Don’t cry, 
Bella,” he pled. 

I tried to pull myself together. “I’m not going to cry.” 
“What did I say?” 

“It’s nothing you said. It’s just, well, it’s me. I did 
something ... bad.” 

He stared at me, his eyes wide with confusion. 

“Edward isn’t going to fight tomorrow,” I whispered 
the explanation. “I’m making him stay with me. I am 
a huge coward.” 



515 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He frowned. “You think this isn’t going to work? That 
they’ll find you here? Do you know something I don’t 
know?” 

“No, no. I’m not afraid of that. I just ... I can’t let him 
go. If he didn’t come back ...” I shuddered, closing my 
eyes to escape the thought. 

Jacob was quiet. 

I kept whispering, my eyes shut. “If anyone gets hurt, 
it will always be my fault. And even if no one does ... I 
was horrible. I had to be, to convince him to stay with 
me. He won’t hold it against me, but I’ll always know 
what I’m capable of.” I felt just a tiny bit better, 
getting this off my chest. Even if I could only confess 
it to Jacob. 

He snorted. My eyes opened slowly, and I was sad to 
see that the hard mask was back. 

“I can’t believe he let you talk him out of going. I 
wouldn’t miss this for anything.” 

I sighed. “I know.” 

“That doesn’t mean anything, though.” He was 
suddenly backtracking. “That doesn’t mean that he 
loves you more than I do.” 

“But you wouldn’t stay with me, even if I begged.” 

He pursed his lips for a moment, and I wondered if he 
would try to deny it. We both knew the truth. “That’s 
only because I know you better,” he said at last. 
“Everything’s going to go without a hitch. Even if 
you’d asked and I’d said no, you wouldn’t be mad at 
me afterwards.” 



516 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“If everything does go without a hitch, you’re probably 
right. I wouldn’t be mad. But the whole time you’re 
gone, I’ll be sick with worry, Jake. Crazy with it.” 

“Why?” he asked gruffly. “Why does it matter to you if 
something happens to me?” 

“Don’t say that. You know how much you mean to 
me. I’m sorry it’s not in the way you want, but that’s 
just how it is. You’re my best friend. At least, you 
used to be. And still sometimes are ... when you let 
your guard down.” 

He smiled the old smile that I loved. “I’m always that,” 
he promised. “Even when I don’t ... behave as well as 
I should. Underneath, I’m always in here.” 

“I know. Why else would I put up with all of your 
crap?” 

He laughed with me, and then his eyes were sad. 
“When are you finally going to figure out that you’re 
in love with me, too?” 

“Leave it to you to ruin the moment.” 

“I’m not saying you don’t love him. I’m not stupid. But 
it’s possible to love more than one person at a time, 
Bella. I’ve seen it in action.” 

“I’m not some freaky werewolf, Jacob.” 

He wrinkled his nose, and I was about to apologize for 
that last jab, but he changed the subject. 

“We’re not far now, I can smell him.” 

I sighed in relief. 



517 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He misinterpreted my meaning. “I’d happily slow 
down, Bella, but you’re going to want to be under 
shelter before that hits.” 

We both looked up at the sky. 

A solid wall of purple-black cloud was racing in from 
the west, blackening the forest beneath it as it came. 

“Wow,” I muttered. “You’d better hurry, Jake. You’ll 
want to get home before it gets here.” 

“I’m not going home.” 

I glared at him, exasperated. “You’re not camping 
with us.” 

“Not technically — as in, sharing your tent or 
anything. I prefer the storm to the smell. But I’m sure 
your bloodsucker will want to keep in touch with the 
pack for coordination purposes, and so I will 
graciously provide that service.” 

“I thought that was Seth’s job.” 

“He’ll take over tomorrow, during the fight.” 

The reminder silenced me for a second. I stared at 
him, worry springing up again with sudden 
fierceness. 

“I don’t suppose there’s any way you’d just stay since 
you’re already here?” I suggested. “If I did beg? Or 
trade back the lifetime of servitude or something?” 

“Tempting, but no. Then again, the begging might be 
interesting to see. You can give it a go if you like.” 

“There’s really nothing, nothing at all I can say?” 

518 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nope. Not unless you can promise me a better fight. 
Anyway, Sam’s calling the shots, not me.” 

That reminded me. 

“Edward told me something the other day . . . about 
you.” 

He bristled. “It’s probably a lie.” 

“Oh, really? You aren’t second in command of the 
pack, then?” 

He blinked, his face going blank with surprise. “Oh. 
That.” 

“How come you never told me that?” 

“Why would I? It’s no big thing.” 

“I don’t know. Why not? It’s interesting. So, how does 
that work? How did Sam end up as the Alpha, and 
you as the ... the Beta?” 

Jacob chuckled at my invented term. “Sam was the 
first, the oldest. It made sense for him to take 
charge.” 

I frowned. “But shouldn’t Jared or Paul be second, 
then? They were the next to change.” 

“Well ... it’s hard to explain,” Jacob said evasively. 

“Try.” 

He sighed. “It’s more about the lineage, you know? 
Sort of old-fashioned. Why should it matter who your 
grandpa was, right?” 



519 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I remembered something Jacob had told me a long 
time ago, before either of us had known anything 
about werewolves. 

“Didn’t you say that Ephraim Black was the last chief 
the Quileutes had?” 

“Yeah, that’s right. Because he was the Alpha. Did 
you know that, technically, Sam’s the chief of the 
whole tribe now?” He laughed. “Crazy traditions.” 

I thought about that for a second, trying to make all 
the pieces fit. “But you also said that people listened 
to your dad more than anyone else on the council, 
because he was Ephraim’s grandson?” 

“What about it?” 

“Well, if it’s about the lineage ... shouldn’t you be the 
chief, then?” 

Jacob didn’t answer me. He stared into the darkening 
forest, as if he suddenly needed to concentrate on 
where he was going. 

“Jake?” 

“No. That’s Sam’s job.” He kept his eyes on our 
pathless course. 

“Why? His great-granddad was Levi Uley, right? Was 
Levi an Alpha, too?” 

“There’s only one Alpha,” he answered automatically. 
“So what was Levi?” 

“Sort of a Beta, I guess.” He snorted at my term. “Like 
me.” 

520 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That doesn’t make sense.” 



“It doesn’t matter.” 

“I just want to understand.” 

Jacob finally met my confused gaze, and then sighed. 
“Yeah. I was supposed to be the Alpha.” 

My eyebrows pulled together. “Sam didn’t want to 
step down?” 

“Hardly. I didn’t want to step up.” 

“Why not?” 

He frowned, uncomfortable with my questions. Well, 
it was his turn to feel uncomfortable. 

“I didn’t want any of it, Bella. I didn’t want anything 
to change. I didn’t want to be some legendary chief. I 
didn’t want to be part of a pack of werewolves, let 
alone their leader. I wouldn’t take it when Sam 
offered.” 

I thought about this for a long moment. Jacob didn’t 
interrupt. He stared into the forest again. 

“But I thought you were happier. That you were okay 
with this,” I finally whispered. 

Jacob smiled down at me reassuringly. “Yeah. It’s 
really not so bad. Exciting sometimes, like with this 
thing tomorrow. But at first it sort of felt like being 
drafted into a war you didn’t know existed. There was 
no choice, you know? And it was so final.” He 
shrugged. “Anyway, I guess I’m glad now. It has to be 
done, and could I trust someone else to get it right? 
It’s better to make sure myself.” 

521 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at him, feeling an unexpected kind of awe for 
my friend. He was more of a grown-up than I’d ever 
given him credit for. Like with Billy the other night at 
the bonfire, there was a majesty here that I’d never 
suspected. 

“Chief Jacob,” I whispered, smiling at the way the 
words sounded together. 

He rolled his eyes. 

Just then, the wind shook more fiercely through the 
trees around us, and it felt like it was blowing straight 
off a glacier. The sharp sound of wood cracking 
echoed off the mountain. Though the light was 
vanishing as the grisly cloud covered the sky, I could 
still see the little white specks that fluttered past us. 

Jacob stepped up the pace, keeping his eyes on the 
ground now as he flat out sprinted. I curled more 
willingly against his chest, recoiling from the 
unwelcome snow. 

It was only minutes later that he dashed around to 
the lee side of the stony peak and we could see the 
little tent nestled up against the sheltering face. More 
flurries were falling around us, but the wind was too 
fierce to let them settle anywhere. 

“Bella!” Edward called out in acute relief. We’d caught 
him in the middle of pacing back and forth across the 
little open space. 

He flashed to my side, sort of blurring as he moved so 
swiftly. Jacob cringed, and then set me on my feet. 
Edward ignored his reaction and caught me in a tight 
hug. 



522 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thank you,” Edward said over my head. His tone was 
unmistakably sincere. “That was quicker than I 
expected, and I truly appreciate it.” 

I twisted to see Jacob’s response. 

Jacob merely shrugged, all the friendliness wiped 
clean from his face. “Get her inside. This is going to 
be bad — my hair’s standing up on my scalp. Is that 
tent secure?” 

“I all but welded it to the rock.” 

“Good.” 

Jacob looked up at the sky — now black with the 
storm, sprinkled with the swirling bits of snow. His 
nostrils flared. 

“I’m going to change,” he said. “I want to know what’s 
going on back home.” 

He hung his jacket on a low, stubby branch, and 
walked into the murky forest without a backward 
glance. 



523 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





FIRE AND ICE 



The wind shook the tent again, and I shook with it. 

The temperature was dropping. I could feel it through 
the down bag, through my jacket. I was fully dressed, 
my hiking boots still laced into place. It didn’t make 
any difference. How could it be so cold? How could it 
keep getting colder? It had to bottom out sometime, 
didn’t it? 

“W-w-w-w-w-what t-t-t-t-time is it?” I forced the 
words through my rattling teeth. 

“Two,” Edward answered. 

Edward sat as far from me as possible in the cramped 
space, afraid to even breathe on me when I was 
already so cold. It was too dark to see his face, but 
his voice was wild with worry, indecision, and 
frustration. 

“Maybe ...” 

“No, I’m f-f-f-f-f-fine, r-r-r-really. I don’t w-w-w-want 
to g-go outside.” 

He’d tried to talk me into making a run for it a dozen 
times already, but I was terrified of leaving my 
shelter. If it was this cold in here, protected from the 
raging wind, I could imagine how bad it would be if 
we were running through it. 

And it would waste all our efforts this afternoon. 
Would we have enough time to reset ourselves when 
the storm was over? What if it didn’t end? It made no 

524 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



sense to move now. I could shiver my way through 
one night. 

I was worried that the trail I had laid would be lost, 
but he promised that it would still be plain to the 
coming monsters. 

“What can I do?” he almost begged. 

I just shook my head. 

Out in the snow, Jacob whined unhappily. 

“G-g-g-get out of h-h-h-ere,” I ordered, again. 

“He’s just worried about you,” Edward translated. 
“He’s fine. His body is equipped to deal with this.” 

“H-h-h-h-h-h.” I wanted to say that he should still 
leave, but I couldn’t get it past my teeth. I nearly bit 
my tongue off trying. At least Jacob did seem to be 
well equipped for the snow, better even than the 
others in his pack with his thicker, longer, shaggy 
russet fur. I wondered why that was. 

Jacob whimpered, a high-pitched, grating sound of 
complaint. 

“What do you want me to do?” Edward growled, too 
anxious to bother with politeness anymore. “Carry her 
through that? I don’t see you making yourself useful. 
Why don’t you go fetch a space heater or something?” 

“I’m ok-k-k-k-k-k-kay,” I protested. Judging from 
Edward’s groan and the muted growl outside the tent, 
I hadn’t convinced anyone. The wind rocked the tent 
roughly, and I shuddered in harmony with it. 



525 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




A sudden howl ripped through the roar of the wind, 
and I covered my ears against the noise. Edward 
scowled. 

“That was hardly necessary,” he muttered. “And that’s 
the worst idea I’ve ever heard,” he called more loudly. 

“Better than anything you’ve come up with,” Jacob 
answered, his human voice startling me. “Go fetch a 
space heater,” he grumbled. “I’m not a St. Bernard.” 

I heard the sound of the zipper around the tent door 
pulling swiftly down. 

Jacob slid through the smallest opening he could 
manage, while the arctic air flowed in around him, a 
few flecks of snow falling to the floor of the tent. I 
shivered so hard it was a convulsion. 

“I don’t like this,” Edward hissed as Jake zipped the 
tent door shut. “Just give her the coat and get out.” 

My eyes were adjusted enough to see shapes — Jacob 
was carrying the parka that had been hanging on a 
tree next to the tent. 

I tried to ask what they were talking about, but all 
that came out of my mouth was, “W-w-w-w-w-w,” as 
the shivering made me stutter uncontrollably. 

“The parka’s for tomorrow — she’s too cold to warm it 
up by herself. It’s frozen.” He dropped it by the door. 
“You said she needed a space heater, and here I am.” 
Jacob held his arms as wide as the tent allowed. As 
usual, when he’d been running around as a wolf, he’d 
only thrown on the bare essentials — just a pair of 
sweats, no shirt, no shoes. 



526 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“J-J-J-J-Jake, you’ll f-f-f-freez-z-z-ze,” I tried to 
complain. 

“Not me,” he said cheerfully. “I run at a toasty one-oh- 
eight point nine these days. I’ll have you sweating in 
no time.” 

Edward snarled, but Jacob didn’t even look at him. 
Instead, he crawled to my side and started unzipping 
my sleeping bag. 

Edward’s hand was suddenly hard on his shoulder, 
restraining, snow white against the dark skin. Jacob’s 
jaw clenched, his nostrils flaring, his body recoiling 
from the cold touch. The long muscles in his arms 
flexed automatically. 

“Get your hand off of me,” he growled through his 
teeth. 

“Keep your hands off of her,” Edward answered 
blackly. 

“D-d-d-don’t f-f-f-f-fight,” I pleaded. Another tremor 
rocked through me. It felt like my teeth were going to 
shatter, they were slamming together so hard. 

“I’m sure she’ll thank you for this when her toes turn 
black and drop off,” Jacob snapped. 

Edward hesitated, then his hand fell away and he slid 
back to his position in the corner. 

His voice was flat and frightening. “Watch yourself.” 

Jacob chuckled. 

“Scoot over, Bella,” he said, zipping the sleeping bag 
open farther. 

527 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I stared at him in outrage. No wonder Edward was 
reacting this way. 

“N-n-n-n-n,” I tried to protest. 

“Don’t be stupid,” he said, exasperated. “Don’t you 
like having ten toes?” 

He crammed his body into the nonexistent space, 
forcing the zipper up behind himself. 

And then I couldn’t object — I didn’t want to 
anymore. He was so warm. His arms constricted 
around me, holding me snugly against his bare chest. 
The heat was irresistible, like air after being 
underwater for too long. He cringed when I pressed 
my icy fingers eagerly against his skin. 

“Jeez, you’re freezing, Bella,” he complained. 

“S-s-s-s-sorry,” I stuttered. 

“Try to relax,” he suggested as another shiver rippled 
through me violently. “You’ll be warm in a minute. Of 
course, you’d warm up faster if you took your clothes 
off.” 

Edward growled sharply. 

“That’s just a simple fact,” Jacob defended himself. 
“Survival one-oh-one.” 

“C-c-cut it out, Jake,” I said angrily, though my body 
refused to even try to pull away from him. “N-n-n- 
nobody really n-n-n-n-needs all ten t-t-t-toes.” 

“Don’t worry about the bloodsucker,” Jacob 
suggested, and his tone was smug. “He’s just 
jealous.” 

528 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course I am.” Edward’s voice was velvet again, 
under control, a musical murmur in the darkness. 
“You don’t have the faintest idea how much I wish I 
could do what you’re doing for her, mongrel.” 

“Those are the breaks,” Jacob said lightly, but then 
his tone soured. “At least you know she wishes it was 
you.” 

“True,” Edward agreed. 

The shuddering slowed, became bearable while they 
wrangled. 

“There,” Jacob said, pleased. “Feeling better?” 

I was finally able to speak clearly. “Yes.” 

“Your lips are still blue,” he mused. “Want me to 
warm those up for you, too? You only have to ask.” 

Edward sighed heavily. 

“Behave yourself,” I muttered, pressing my face 
against his shoulder. He flinched again when my cold 
skin touched his, and I smiled with slightly vindictive 
satisfaction. 

It was already warm and snug inside the sleeping 
bag. Jacob’s body heat seemed to radiate from every 
side — maybe because there was so much of him. I 
kicked my boots off, and pushed my toes against his 
legs. He jumped slightly, and then leaned his head 
down to press his hot cheek against my numb ear. 

I noticed that Jacob’s skin had a woodsy, musky 
scent — it fit the setting, here in the middle of the 
forest. It was nice. I wondered if the Cullens and the 
Quileutes weren’t just playing up that whole odor 

529 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




issue because of their prejudices. Everyone smelled 
fine to me. 

The storm howled like an animal attacking the tent, 
but it didn’t worry me now. Jacob was out of the cold, 
and so was I. Plus, I was simply too exhausted to 
worry about anything — tired from just staying awake 
so late, and aching from the muscle spasms. My body 
relaxed slowly as I thawed, piece by frozen piece, and 
then turned limp. 

“Jake?” I mumbled sleepily. “Can I ask you 
something? I’m not trying to be a jerk or anything, I’m 
honestly curious.” They were the same words he’d 
used in my kitchen . . . how long ago was it now? 

“Sure,” he chuckled, remembering. 

“Why are you so much furrier than your friends? You 
don’t have to answer if I’m being rude.” I didn’t know 
the rules for etiquette as they applied to werewolf 
culture. 

“Because my hair is longer,” he said, amused — my 
question hadn’t offended him, at least. He shook his 
head so that his unkempt hair — grown out to his 
chin now — tickled my cheek. 

“Oh.” I was surprised, but it made sense. So that was 
why they’d all cropped their hair in the beginning, 
when they joined the pack. “Then why don’t you cut 
it? Do you like to be shaggy?” 

He didn’t answer right away this time, and Edward 
laughed under his breath. 

“Sorry,” I said, pausing to yawn. “I didn’t mean to pry. 
You don’t have to tell me.” 



530 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob made an annoyed sound. “Oh, he’ll tell you 
anyway, so I might as well... . I was growing my hair 
out because ... it seemed like you liked it better long.” 

“Oh.” I felt awkward. “I, er, like it both ways, Jake. 

You don’t need to be ... inconvenienced.” 

He shrugged. “Turns out it was very convenient 
tonight, so don’t worry about it.” 

I didn’t have anything else to say. As the silence 
lengthened, my eyelids drooped and shut, and my 
breathing grew slower, more even. 

“That’s right, honey, go to sleep,” Jacob whispered. 

I sighed, content, already half-unconscious. 

“Seth is here,” Edward muttered to Jacob, and I 
suddenly understood the point of the howling. 

“Perfect. Now you can keep an eye on everything else, 
while I take care of your girlfriend for you.” 

Edward didn’t answer, but I groaned groggily. “Stop 
it,” I muttered. 

It was quiet then, inside at least. Outside, the wind 
shrieked insanely through the trees. The shimmying 
of the tent made it hard to sleep. The poles would 
suddenly jerk and quiver, pulling me back from the 
edge of unconsciousness each time I was close to 
slipping under. I felt so bad for the wolf, the boy that 
was stuck outside in the snow. 

My mind wandered as I waited for sleep to find me. 
This warm little space made me think of the early 
days with Jacob, and I remembered how it used to be 
when he was my replacement sun, the warmth that 

531 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




made my empty life livable. It had been a while since 
I’d thought of Jake that way, but here he was, 
warming me again. 

“Please!” Edward hissed. “Do you mind!” 

“What?” Jacob whispered back, his tone surprised. 

“Do you think you could attempt to control your 
thoughts?” Edward’s low whisper was furious. 

“No one said you had to listen,” Jacob muttered, 
defiant, yet still embarrassed. “Get out of my head.” 

“I wish I could. You have no idea how loud your little 
fantasies are. It’s like you’re shouting them at me.” 

“I’ll try to keep it down,” Jacob whispered 
sarcastically. 

There was a brief moment of silence. 

“Yes,” Edward answered an unspoken thought in a 
murmur so low I barely made it out. “I’m jealous of 
that, too.” 

“I figured it was like that,” Jacob whispered smugly. 
“Sort of evens the playing field up a little, doesn’t it?” 

Edward chuckled. “In your dreams.” 

“You know, she could still change her mind,” Jacob 
taunted him. “Considering all the things I could do 
with her that you can’t. At least, not without killing 
her, that is.” 

“Go to sleep, Jacob,” Edward murmured. “You’re 
starting to get on my nerves.” 



532 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I think I will. I’m really very comfortable.” 
Edward didn’t answer. 



I was too far gone to ask them to stop talking about 
me like I wasn’t there. The conversation had taken on 
a dreamlike quality to me, and I wasn’t sure I was 
really awake. 

“Maybe I would,” Edward said after a moment, 
answering a question I hadn’t heard. 

“But would you be honest?” 

“You can always ask and see.” Edward’s tone made 
me wonder if I was missing out on a joke. 

“Well, you see inside my head — let me see inside 
yours tonight, it’s only fair,” Jacob said. 

“Your head is full of questions. Which one do you 
want me to answer?” 

“The jealousy ... it has to be eating at you. You can’t 
be as sure of yourself as you seem. Unless you have 
no emotions at all.” 

“Of course it is,” Edward agreed, no longer amused. 
“Right now it’s so bad that I can barely control my 
voice. Of course, it’s even worse when she’s away from 
me, with you, and I can’t see her.” 

“Do you think about it all the time?” Jacob whispered. 
“Does it make it hard to concentrate when she’s not 
with you?” 

“Yes and no,” Edward said; he seemed determined to 
answer honestly. “My mind doesn’t work quite the 
same as yours. I can think of many more things at 

533 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




one time. Of course, that means that I’m always able 
to think of you, always able to wonder if that’s where 
her mind is, when she’s quiet and thoughtful.” 

They were both still for a minute. 

“Yes, I would guess that she thinks about you often,” 
Edward murmured in response to Jacob’s thoughts. 
“More often than I like. She worries that you’re 
unhappy. Not that you don’t know that. Not that you 
don’t use that.” 

“I have to use whatever I can,” Jacob muttered. “I’m 
not working with your advantages — advantages like 
her knowing she’s in love with you.” 

“That helps,” Edward agreed in a mild tone. 

Jacob was defiant. “She’s in love with me, too, you 
know.” 

Edward didn’t answer. 

Jacob sighed. “But she doesn’t know it.” 

“I can’t tell you if you’re right.” 

“Does that bother you? Do you wish you could see 
what she’s thinking, too?” 

“Yes ... and no, again. She likes it better this way, 
and, though it sometimes drives me insane, I’d rather 
she was happy.” 

The wind ripped around the tent, shaking it like an 
earthquake. Jacob’s arms tightened around me 
protectively. 



534 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Thank you,” Edward whispered. “Odd as this might 
sound, I suppose I’m glad you’re here, Jacob.” 

“You mean, ‘as much as I’d love to kill you, I’m glad 
she’s warm,’ right?” 

“It’s an uncomfortable truce, isn’t it?” 

Jacob’s whisper was suddenly smug. “I knew you 
were just as crazy jealous as I am.” 

“I’m not such a fool as to wear it on my sleeve like you 
do. It doesn’t help your case, you know.” 

“You have more patience than I do.” 

“I should. I’ve had a hundred years to gain it. A 
hundred years of waiting for her.” 

“So ... at what point did you decide to play the very 
patient good guy?” 

“When I saw how much it was hurting her to make 
her choose. It’s not usually this difficult to control. I 
can smother the . . . less civilized feelings I may have 
for you fairly easily most of the time. Sometimes I 
think she sees through me, but I can’t be sure.” 

“I think you were just worried that if you really forced 
her to choose, she might not choose you.” 

Edward didn’t answer right away. “That was a part of 
it,” he finally admitted. “But only a small part. We all 
have our moments of doubt. Mostly I was worried that 
she’d hurt herself trying to sneak away to see you. 
After I’d accepted that she was more or less safe with 
you — as safe as Bella ever is — it seemed best to 
stop driving her to extremes.” 



535 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jacob sighed. “I’d tell her all of this, but she’d never 
believe me.” 

“I know.” It sounded like Edward was smiling. 

“You think you know everything,” Jacob muttered. 

“I don’t know the future,” Edward said, his voice 
suddenly unsure. 

There was a long pause. 

“What would you do if she changed her mind?” Jacob 
asked. 

“I don’t know that either.” 

Jacob chuckled quietly. “Would you try to kill me?” 
Sarcastic again, as if doubting Edward’s ability to do 
it. 

“No.” 

“Why not?” Jacob’s tone was still jeering. 

“Do you really think I would hurt her that way?” 

Jacob hesitated for a second, and then sighed. “Yeah, 
you’re right. I know that’s right. But sometimes ...” 

“Sometimes it’s an intriguing idea.” 

Jacob pressed his face into the sleeping bag to muffle 
his laugher. “Exactly,” he eventually agreed. 

What a strange dream this was. I wondered if it was 
the relentless wind that made me imagine all the 
whispering. Only the wind was screaming rather than 
whispering ... 

536 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What is it like? Losing her?” Jacob asked after a 
quiet moment, and there was no hint of humor in his 
suddenly hoarse voice. “When you thought that you’d 
lost her forever? How did you . . . cope?” 

“That’s very difficult for me to talk about.” 

Jacob waited. 

“There were two different times that I thought that.” 
Edward spoke each word just a little slower than 
normal. “The first time, when I thought I could leave 
her ... that was ... almost bearable. Because I thought 
she would forget me and it would be like I hadn’t 
touched her life. For over six months I was able to 
stay away, to keep my promise that I wouldn’t 
interfere again. It was getting close — I was fighting 
but I knew I wasn’t going to win; I would have come 
back ... just to check on her. That’s what I would 
have told myself, anyway. And if I’d found her 
reasonably happy ... I like to think that I could have 
gone away again. 

“But she wasn’t happy. And I would have stayed. 
That’s how she convinced me to stay with her 
tomorrow, of course. You were wondering about that 
before, what could possibly motivate me ... what she 
was feeling so needlessly guilty about. She reminded 
me of what it did to her when I left — what it still 
does to her when I leave. She feels horrible about 
bringing that up, but she’s right. I’ll never be able to 
make up for that, but I’ll never stop trying anyway.” 

Jacob didn’t respond for a moment, listening to the 
storm or digesting what he’d heard, I didn’t know 
which. 

“And the other time — when you thought she was 
dead?” Jacob whispered roughly. 

537 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yes.” Edward answered a different question. “It will 
probably feel like that to you, won’t it? The way you 
perceive us, you might not be able to see her as Bella 
anymore. But that’s who she’ll be.” 

“That’s not what I asked.” 

Edward’s voice came back fast and hard. “I can’t tell 
you how it felt. There aren’t words.” 

Jacob’s arms flexed around me. 

“But you left because you didn’t want to make her a 
bloodsucker. You want her to be human.” 

Edward spoke slowly. “Jacob, from the second that I 
realized that I loved her, I knew there were only four 
possibilities. The first alternative, the best one for 
Bella, would be if she didn’t feel as strongly for me — 
if she got over me and moved on. I would accept that, 
though it would never change the way I felt. You 
think of me as a ... living stone — hard and cold. 
That’s true. We are set the way we are, and it is very 
rare for us to experience a real change. When that 
happens, as when Bella entered my life, it is a 
permanent change. There’s no going back... . 

“The second alternative, the one I’d originally chosen, 
was to stay with her throughout her human life. It 
wasn’t a good option for her, to waste her life with 
someone who couldn’t be human with her, but it was 
the alternative I could most easily face. Knowing all 
along that, when she died, I would find a way to die, 
too. Sixty years, seventy years — it would seem like a 
very, very short time to me... . But then it proved 
much too dangerous for her to live in such close 
proximity with my world. It seemed like everything 
that could go wrong did. Or hung over us ... waiting 



538 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




to go wrong. I was terrified that I wouldn’t get those 
sixty years if I stayed near her while she was human. 



“So I chose option three. Which turned out to be the 
worst mistake of my very long life, as you know. I 
chose to take myself out of her world, hoping to force 
her into the first alternative. It didn’t work, and it very 
nearly killed us both. 

“What do I have left but the fourth option? It’s what 
she wants — at least, she thinks she does. I’ve been 
trying to delay her, to give her time to find a reason to 
change her mind, but she’s very ... stubborn. You 
know that. I’ll be lucky to stretch this out a few more 
months. She has a horror of getting older, and her 
birthday is in September... .” 

“I like option one,” Jacob muttered. 

Edward didn’t respond. 

“You know exactly how much I hate to accept this,” 
Jacob whispered slowly, “but I can see that you do 
love her ... in your way. I can’t argue with that 
anymore. 

“Given that, I don’t think you should give up on the 
first alternative, not yet. I think there’s a very good 
chance that she would be okay. After time. You know, 
if she hadn’t jumped off a cliff in March ... and if 
you’d waited another six months to check on her... . 
Well, you might have found her reasonably happy. I 
had a game plan.” 

Edward chuckled. “Maybe it would have worked. It 
was a well thought-out plan.” 

“Yeah.” Jake sighed. “But ... ,” suddenly he was 
whispering so fast the words got tangled, “give me a 

539 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




year, bl — Edward. I really think I could make her 
happy. She’s stubborn, no one knows that better than 
I do, but she’s capable of healing. She would have 
healed before. And she could be human, with Charlie 
and Renee, and she could grow up, and have kids and 
...be Bella. 

“You love her enough that you have to see the 
advantages of that plan. She thinks you’re very 
unselfish . . . are you really? Can you consider the idea 
that I might be better for her than you are?” 

“I have considered it,” Edward answered quietly. “In 
some ways, you would be better suited for her than 
another human. Bella takes some looking after, and 
you’re strong enough that you could protect her from 
herself, and from everything that conspires against 
her. You have done that already, and I’ll owe you for 
that for as long as I live — forever — whichever comes 
first... . 

“I even asked Alice if she could see that — see if Bella 
would be better off with you. She couldn’t, of course. 
She can’t see you, and then Bella’s sure of her course, 
for now. 

“But I’m not stupid enough to make the same mistake 
I made before, Jacob. I won’t try to force her into that 
first option again. As long as she wants me, I’m here.” 

“And if she were to decide that she wanted me?” 

Jacob challenged. “Okay, it’s a long shot, I’ll give you 
that.” 

“I would let her go.” 

“Just like that?” 



540 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“In the sense that I’d never show her how hard it was 
for me, yes. But I would keep watch. You see, Jacob, 
you might leave her someday. Like Sam and Emily, 
you wouldn’t have a choice. I would always be waiting 
in the wings, hoping for that to happen.” 

Jacob snorted quietly. “Well, you’ve been much more 
honest than I had any right to expect ... Edward. 
Thanks for letting me in your head.” 

“As I said, I’m feeling oddly grateful for your presence 
in her life tonight. It was the least I could do... . You 
know, Jacob, if it weren’t for the fact that we’re 
natural enemies and that you’re also trying to steal 
away the reason for my existence, I might actually 
like you.” 

“Maybe ... if you weren’t a disgusting vampire who 
was planning to suck out the life of the girl I love . . . 
well, no, not even then.” 

Edward chuckled. 

“Can I ask you something?” Edward said after a 
moment. 

“Why would you have to ask?” 

“I can only hear if you think of it. It’s just a story that 
Bella seemed reluctant to tell me about the other day. 
Something about a third wife ... ?” 

“What about it?” 

Edward didn’t answer, listening to the story in 
Jacob’s head. I heard his low hiss in the darkness. 

“What?” Jacob demanded again. 



541 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Of course,” Edward seethed. “Of course! I rather wish 
your elders had kept that story to themselves, Jacob.” 

“You don’t like the leeches being painted as the bad 
guys?” Jacob mocked. “You know, they are. Then and 
now.” 

“I really couldn’t care less about that part. Can’t you 
guess which character Bella would identify with?” 

It took Jacob a minute. “Oh. Ugh. The third wife. 

Okay, I see your point.” 

“She wants to be there in the clearing. To do what 
little she can, as she puts it.” He sighed. “That was 
the secondary reason for my staying with her 
tomorrow. She’s quite inventive when she wants 
something.” 

“You know, your military brother gave her the idea 
just as much as the story did.” 

“Neither side meant any harm,” Edward whispered, 
peace-making now. 

“And when does this little truce end?” Jacob asked. 
“First light? Or do we wait until after the fight?” 

There was a pause as they both considered. 

“First light,” they whispered together, and then 
laughed quietly. 

“Sleep well, Jacob,” Edward murmured. “Enjoy the 
moment.” 

It was quiet again, and the tent held still for a few 
minutes. The wind seemed to have decided that it 



542 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




wasn’t going to flatten us after all, and was giving up 
the fight. 

Edward groaned softly. “I didn’t mean that quite so 
literally.” 

“Sorry,” Jacob whispered. “You could leave, you know 
— give us a little privacy.” 

“Would you like me to help you sleep, Jacob?” 

Edward offered. 

“You could try,” Jacob said, unconcerned. “It would 
be interesting to see who walked away, wouldn’t it?” 

“Don’t tempt me too far, wolf. My patience isn’t that 
perfect.” 

Jacob whispered a laugh. “I’d rather not move just 
now, if you don’t mind.” 

Edward started humming to himself, louder than 
usual — trying to drown out Jacob’s thoughts, I 
assumed. But it was my lullaby he hummed, and, 
despite my growing discomfort with this whispered 
dream, I sank deeper into unconsciousness ... into 
other dreams that made better sense... . 



543 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





When I woke up in the morning, it was very bright — 
even inside the tent, the sunlight hurt my eyes. And I 
was sweating, as Jacob had predicted. Jacob was 
snoring lightly in my ear, his arms still wrapped 
around me. 

I pulled my head away from his feverishly warm chest 
and felt the sting of the cold morning on my clammy 
cheek. Jacob sighed in his sleep; his arms tightened 
unconsciously. 

I squirmed, unable to loosen his hold, struggling to 
lift my head enough to see... . 

Edward met my gaze evenly. His expression was calm, 
but the pain in his eyes was unconcealed. 

“Is it any warmer out there?” I whispered. 

“Yes. I don’t think the space heater will be necessary 
today.” 

I tried to get to the zipper, but I couldn’t free my 
arms. I strained, fighting against Jacob’s inert 
strength. Jacob muttered, still fast asleep, his arms 
constricting again. 

“Some help?” I asked quietly. 

Edward smiled. “Did you want me to take his arms all 
the way off?” 

“No, thank you. Just get me free. I’m going to get heat 
stroke.” 

544 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



Edward unzipped the sleeping bag in a swift, abrupt 
movement. Jacob fell out, his bare back hitting the 
icy floor of the tent. 

“Hey!” he complained, his eyes flying open. 
Instinctively, he flinched away from the cold, rolling 
onto me. I gasped as his weight knocked the breath 
out of me. 

And then his weight was gone. I felt the impact as 
Jacob flew into one of the tent poles and the tent 
shuddered. 

The growling erupted from all around. Edward was 
crouching in front of me, and I couldn’t see his face, 
but the snarls were ripping angrily out of his chest. 
Jacob was half-crouched, too, his whole body 
quivering, while growls rumbled through his clenched 
teeth. Outside the tent, Seth Clearwater’s vicious 
snarls echoed off the rocks. 

“Stop it, stop it!” I yelled, scrambling awkwardly to 
put myself between them. The space was so small 
that I didn’t have to stretch far to put one hand on 
each of their chests. Edward wrapped his hand 
around my waist, ready to yank me out of the way. 

“Stop it, now,” I warned him. 

Under my touch, Jacob began to calm himself. The 
shaking slowed, but his teeth were still bared, his 
eyes furiously focused on Edward. Seth continued to 
growl, a long unbroken sound, a violent background 
to the sudden silence in the tent. 

“Jacob?” I asked, waiting until he finally dropped his 
glare to look at me. “Are you hurt?” 

“Of course not!” he hissed. 

545 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I turned to Edward. He was looking at me, his 
expression hard and angry. “That wasn’t nice. You 
should say sorry.” 

His eyes widened in disgust. “You must be joking — 
he was crushing you!” 

“Because you dumped him on the floor! He didn’t do 
it on purpose, and he didn’t hurt me.” 

Edward groaned, revolted. Slowly, he looked up to 
glare at Jacob with hostile eyes. “My apologies, dog.” 

“No harm done,” Jacob said, a taunting edge to his 
voice. 

It was still cold, though not as cold as it had been. I 
curled my arms around my chest. 

“Here,” Edward said, calm again. He took the parka 
off the floor and wrapped it over the top of my coat. 

“That’s Jacob’s,” I objected. 

“Jacob has a fur coat,” Edward hinted. 

“I’ll just use the sleeping bag again, if you don’t 
mind.” Jacob ignored him, climbing around us and 
sliding into the down bag. “I wasn’t quite ready to 
wake up. That wasn’t the best night’s sleep I ever 
had.” 

“It was your idea,” Edward said impassively. 

Jacob was curled up, his eyes already closed. He 
yawned. “I didn’t say it wasn’t the best night I’ve ever 
spent. Just that I didn’t get a lot of sleep. I thought 
Bella was never going to shut up.” 



546 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I winced, wondering what might have come out of my 
mouth in my sleep. The possibilities were horrifying. 



“I’m glad you enjoyed yourself,” Edward murmured. 

Jacob’s dark eyes fluttered open. “Didn’t you have a 
nice night, then?” he asked, smug. 

“It wasn’t the worst night of my life.” 

“Did it make the top ten?” Jacob asked with perverse 
enjoyment. 

“Possibly.” 

Jacob smiled and closed his eyes. 

“But,” Edward went on, “if I had been able to take 
your place last night, it would not have made the top 
ten of the best nights of my life. Dream about that.” 

Jacob’s eyes opened into a glare. He sat up stiffly, his 
shoulders tense. 

“You know what? I think it’s too crowded in here.” 

“I couldn’t agree more.” 

I elbowed Edward in the ribs — probably giving 
myself a bruise. 

“Guess I’ll catch up on my sleep later, then.” Jacob 
made a face. “I need to talk to Sam anyway.” 

He rolled to his knees and grabbed the door’s zipper. 

Pain crackled down my spine and lodged in my 
stomach as I abruptly realized that this could be the 
last time I would see him. He was going back to Sam, 

547 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




back to fight the horde of bloodthirsty newborn 
vampires. 

“Jake, wait — ” I reached after him, my hand sliding 
down his arm. 

He jerked his arm away before my fingers could find 
purchase. 

“Please, Jake? Won’t you stay?” 

“No.” 

The word was hard and cold. I knew my face gave 
away my pain, because he exhaled and half a smile 
softened his expression. 

“Don’t worry about me, Bells. I’ll be fine, just like I 
always am.” He forced a laugh. “’Sides, you think I’m 
going to let Seth go in my place — have all the fun 
and steal all the glory? Right.” He snorted. 

“Be careful — ” 

He shoved out of the tent before I could finish. 

“Give it a rest, Bella,” I heard him mutter as he re- 
zipped the door. 

I listened for the sound of his retreating footsteps, but 
it was perfectly still. No more wind. I could hear 
morning birdsong far away on the mountain, and 
nothing else. Jacob moved in silence now. 

I huddled in my coats, and leaned against Edward’s 
shoulder. We were quiet for a long time. 

“How much longer?” I asked. 



548 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Alice told Sam it should be an hour or so,” Edward 
said, soft and bleak. 

“We stay together. No matter what.” 

“No matter what,” he agreed, his eyes tight. 

“I know,” I said. “I’m terrified for them, too.” 

“They know how to handle themselves,” Edward 
assured me, purposely making his voice light. “I just 
hate missing the fun.” 

Again with the fun. My nostrils flared. 

He put his arm around my shoulder. “Don’t worry,” 
he urged, and then he kissed my forehead. 

As if there was any way to avoid that. “Sure, sure.” 

“Do you want me to distract you?” He breathed, 
running his cold fingers along my cheekbone. 

I shivered involuntarily; the morning was still frosty. 

“Maybe not right now,” he answered himself, pulling 
his hand away. 

“There are other ways to distract me.” 

“What would you like?” 

“You could tell me about your ten best nights,” I 
suggested. “I’m curious.” 

He laughed. “Try to guess.” 

I shook my head. “There ’re too many nights I don’t 
know about. A century of them.” 

549 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’ll narrow it down for you. All of my best nights have 
happened since I met you.” 



“Really?” 

“Yes, really — and by quite a wide margin, too.” 

I thought for a minute. “I can only think of mine,” I 
admitted. 

“They might be the same,” he encouraged. 

“Well, there was the first night. The night you stayed.” 

“Yes, that’s one of mine, too. Of course, you were 
unconscious for my favorite part.” 

“That’s right,” I remembered. “I was talking that 
night, too.” 

“Yes,” he agreed. 

My face got hot as I wondered again what I might 
have said while sleeping in Jacob’s arms. I couldn’t 
remember what I’d dreamed about, or if I’d dreamed 
at all, so that was no help. 

“What did I say last night?” I whispered more quietly 
than before. 

He shrugged instead of answering, and I winced. 

“That bad?” 

“Nothing too horrible,” he sighed. 

“Please tell me.” 

“Mostly you said my name, the same as usual.” 

550 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s not bad,” I agreed cautiously. 

“Near the end, though, you started mumbling some 
nonsense about ‘Jacob, my Jacob.’” I could hear the 
pain, even in the whisper. “Your Jacob enjoyed that 
quite a lot.” 

I stretched my neck up, straining to reach my lips to 
the edge of his jaw. I couldn’t see into his eyes. He 
was staring up at the ceiling of the tent. 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “That’s just the way I 
differentiate.” 

“Differentiate?” 

“Between Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Between the Jacob 
I like and the one who annoys the hell out of me,” I 
explained. 

“That makes sense.” He sounded slightly mollified. 
“Tell me another favorite night.” 

“Flying home from Italy.” 

He frowned. 

“Is that not one of yours?” I wondered. 

“No, it is one of mine, actually, but I’m surprised it’s 
on your list. Weren’t you under the ludicrous 
impression I was just acting from a guilty conscience, 
and I was going to bolt as soon as the plane doors 
opened?” 

“Yes.” I smiled. “But, still, you were there.” 

He kissed my hair. “You love me more than I deserve.” 



551 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I laughed at the impossibility of that idea. “Next 
would be the night after Italy,” I continued. 

“Yes, that’s on the list. You were so funny.” 

“Funny?” I objected. 

“I had no idea your dreams were so vivid. It took me 
forever to convince you that you were awake.” 

“I’m still not sure,” I muttered. “You’ve always seemed 
more like a dream than reality. Tell me one of yours, 
now. Did I guess your first place?” 

“No — that would be two nights ago, when you finally 
agreed to marry me.” 

I made a face. 

“That doesn’t make your list?” 

I thought about the way he’d kissed me, the 
concession I’d gained, and changed my mind. “Yes ... 
it does. But with reservations. I don’t understand why 
it’s so important to you. You already had me forever.” 

“A hundred years from now, when you’ve gained 
enough perspective to really appreciate the answer, I 
will explain it to you.” 

“I’ll remind you to explain — in a hundred years.” 

“Are you warm enough?” he asked suddenly. 

“I’m fine,” I assured him. “Why?” 

Before he could answer, the silence outside the tent 
was ripped apart by an earsplitting howl of pain. The 
sound ricocheted off the bare rock face of the 

552 I P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




mountain and filled the air so that it seared from 
every direction. 



The howl tore through my mind like a tornado, both 
strange and familiar. Strange because I’d never heard 
such a tortured cry before. Familiar because I knew 
the voice at once — I recognized the sound and 
understood the meaning as perfectly as if I’d uttered 
it myself. It made no difference that Jacob was not 
human when he cried out. I needed no translation. 

Jacob was close. Jacob had heard every word we’d 
said. Jacob was in agony. 

The howl choked off into a peculiar gurgled sob, and 
then it was quiet again. 

I did not hear his silent escape, but I could feel it — I 
could feel the absence I had wrongly assumed before, 
the empty space he left behind. 

“Because your space heater has reached his limit,” 
Edward answered quietly. “Truce over,” he added, so 
low I couldn’t be sure that was really what he’d said. 

“Jacob was listening,” I whispered. It wasn’t a 
question. 

“Yes.” 

“You knew.” 

“Yes.” 

I stared at nothing, seeing nothing. 

“I never promised to fight fair,” he reminded me 
quietly. “And he deserves to know.” 



553 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




My head fell into my hands. 

“Are you angry with me?” he asked. 

“Not you,” I whispered. “I’m horrified at me.” 

“Don’t torment yourself,” he pleaded. 

“Yes,” I agreed bitterly. “I should save my energy to 
torment Jacob some more. I wouldn’t want to leave 
any part of him unharmed.” 

“He knew what he was doing.” 

“Do you think that matters?” I was blinking back 
tears, and this was easy to hear in my voice. “Do you 
think I care whether it’s fair or whether he was 
adequately warned? I’m hurting him. Every time I 
turn around, I’m hurting him again.” My voice was 
getting louder, more hysterical. “I’m a hideous 
person.” 

He wrapped his arms tightly around me. “No, you’re 
not.” 

“I am! What’s wrong with me?” I struggled against his 
arms, and he let them drop. “I have to go find him.” 

“Bella, he’s already miles away, and it’s cold.” 

“I don’t care. I can’t just sit here.” I shrugged off 
Jacob’s parka, shoved my feet into my boots, and 
crawled stiffly to the door; my legs felt numb. “I have 
to — I have to ...” I didn’t know how to finish the 
sentence, didn’t know what there was to do, but I 
unzipped the door anyway, and climbed out into the 
bright, icy morning. 



554 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




There was less snow than I would have thought after 
the fury of last night’s storm. Probably it had blown 
away rather than melted in the sun that now shone 
low in the southeast, glancing off the snow that 
lingered and stabbing at my unadjusted eyes. The air 
still had a bite to it, but it was dead calm and slowly 
becoming more seasonable as the sun rose higher. 

Seth Clearwater was curled up on a patch of dry pine 
needles in the shadow of a thick spruce, his head on 
his paws. His sand-colored fur was almost invisible 
against the dead needles, but I could see the bright 
snow reflect off his open eyes. He was staring at me 
with what I imagined was an accusation. 

I knew Edward was following me as I stumbled 
toward the trees. I couldn’t hear him, but the sun 
reflected off his skin in glittering rainbows that 
danced ahead of me. He didn’t reach out to stop me 
until I was several paces into the forest shadows. 

His hand caught my left wrist. He ignored it when I 
tried to yank myself free. 

“You can’t go after him. Not today. It’s almost time. 
And getting yourself lost wouldn’t help anyone, 
regardless.” 

I twisted my wrist, pulling uselessly. 

“I’m sorry, Bella,” he whispered. “I’m sorry I did that.” 

“You didn’t do anything. It’s my fault. I did this. I did 
everything wrong. I could have . . . When he ... I 
shouldn’t have ... I ... I ...” I was sobbing. 

“Bella, Bella.” 



555 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His arms folded around me, and my tears soaked into 
his shirt. 



“I should have — told him — I should — have said — ” 
What? What could have made this right? “He 
shouldn’t have — found out like this.” 

“Do you want me to see if I can bring him back, so 
that you can talk to him? There’s still a little time,” 
Edward murmured, hushed agony in his voice. 

I nodded into his chest, afraid to see his face. 

“Stay by the tent. I’ll be back soon.” 

His arms disappeared. He left so quickly that, in the 
second it took me to look up, he was already gone. I 
was alone. 

A new sob broke from my chest. I was hurting 
everyone today. Was there anything I touched that 
didn’t get spoiled? 

I didn’t know why it was hitting me so hard now. It 
wasn’t like I hadn’t known this was coming all along. 
But Jacob had never reacted so strongly — lost his 
bold overconfidence and shown the intensity of his 
pain. The sound of his agony still cut at me, 
somewhere deep in my chest. Right beside it was the 
other pain. Pain for feeling pain over Jacob. Pain for 
hurting Edward, too. For not being able to watch 
Jacob go with composure, knowing that it was the 
right thing, the only way. 

I was selfish, I was hurtful. I tortured the ones I loved. 

I was like Cathy, like Wuthering Heights, only my 
options were so much better than hers, neither one 
evil, neither one weak. And here I sat, crying about it, 

556 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




not doing anything productive to make it right. Just 
like Cathy. 

I couldn’t allow what hurt me to influence my 
decisions anymore. It was too little, much too late, 
but I had to do what was right now. Maybe it was 
already done for me. Maybe Edward would not be able 
to bring him back. And then I would accept that and 
get on with my life. Edward would never see me shed 
another tear for Jacob Black. There would be no more 
tears. I wiped the last of them away with cold fingers 
now. 

But if Edward did return with Jacob, that was it. I 
had to tell him to go away and never come back. 

Why was that so hard? So very much more difficult 
than saying goodbye to my other friends, to Angela, to 
Mike? Why did that hurt? It wasn’t right. That 
shouldn’t be able to hurt me. I had what I wanted. I 
couldn’t have them both, because Jacob could not be 
just my friend. It was time to give up wishing for that. 
How ridiculously greedy could any one person be? 

I had to get over this irrational feeling that Jacob 
belonged in my life. He couldn’t belong with me, could 
not be my Jacob, when I belonged to someone else. 

I walked slowly back to the little clearing, my feet 
dragging. When I broke into the open space, blinking 
against the sharp light, I threw one quick glance 
toward Seth — he hadn’t moved from his bed of pine 
needles — and then looked away, avoiding his eyes. 

I could feel that my hair was wild, twisted into clumps 
like Medusa’s snakes. I yanked through it with my 
fingers, and then gave up quickly. Who cared what I 
looked like, anyway? 



557 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I grabbed the canteen hanging beside the tent door 
and shook it. It sloshed wetly, so I unscrewed the lid 
and took a swig to rinse my mouth with the ice water. 
There was food somewhere nearby, but I didn’t feel 
hungry enough to look for it. I started pacing across 
the bright little space, feeling Seth’s eyes on me the 
whole time. Because I wouldn’t look at him, in my 
head he became the boy again, rather than the 
gigantic wolf. So much like a younger Jacob. 

I wanted to ask Seth to bark or give some other sign if 
Jacob was coming back, but I stopped myself. It 
didn’t matter if Jacob came back. It might be easier if 
he didn’t. I wished I had some way to call Edward. 

Seth whined at that moment, and got to his feet. 

“What is it?” I asked him stupidly. 

He ignored me, trotting to the edge of the trees, and 
pointing his nose toward the west. He began 
whimpering. 

“Is it the others, Seth?” I demanded. “In the clearing?” 

He looked at me and yelped softly once, and then 
turned his nose alertly back to the west. His ears laid 
back and he whined again. 

Why was I such a fool? What was I thinking, sending 
Edward away? How was I supposed to know what was 
going on? I didn’t speak wolf. 

A cold trickle of fear began to ooze down my spine. 
What if the time had run out? What if Jacob and 
Edward got too close? What if Edward decided to join 
in the fight? 



558 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The icy fear pooled in my stomach. What if Seth’s 
distress had nothing to do with the clearing, and his 
yelp had been a denial? What if Jacob and Edward 
were fighting with each other, far away somewhere in 
the forest? They wouldn’t do that, would they? 

With sudden, chilling certainty I realized that they 
would — if the wrong words were said. I thought of 
the tense standoff in the tent this morning, and I 
wondered if I’d underestimated how close it had come 
to a fight. 

It would be no more than I deserved if I somehow lost 
them both. 

The ice locked around my heart. 

Before I could collapse with fear, Seth grumbled 
slightly, deep in his chest, and then turned away from 
his watch and sauntered back toward his resting 
place. It calmed me, but irritated me. Couldn’t he 
scratch a message in the dirt or something? 

The pacing was starting to make me sweat under all 
my layers. I threw my jacket into the tent, and then I 
went back to wearing a path across the center of the 
tiny break in the trees. 

Seth jumped to his feet again suddenly, the hackles 
on the back of his neck standing up stiffly. I looked 
around, but saw nothing. If Seth didn’t cut it out, I 
was going to throw a pinecone at him. 

He growled, a low warning sound, slinking back 
toward the western rim, and I rethought my 
impatience. 

“It’s just us, Seth,” Jacob called from a distance. 



559 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I tried to explain to myself why my heart kicked into 
fourth gear when I heard him. It was just fear of what 
I was going to have to do now, that was all. I could 
not allow myself to be relieved that he’d come back. 
That would be the opposite of helpful. 

Edward walked into view first, his face blank and 
smooth. When he stepped out from the shadows, the 
sun shimmered on his skin like it did on the snow. 
Seth went to greet him, looking intently into his eyes. 
Edward nodded slowly, and worry creased his 
forehead. 

“Yes, that’s all we need,” he muttered to himself 
before addressing the big wolf. “I suppose we 
shouldn’t be surprised. But the timing is going to be 
very close. Please have Sam ask Alice to try to nail the 
schedule down better.” 

Seth dipped his head once, and I wished I was able to 
growl. Sure, he could nod now. I turned my head, 
annoyed, and realized that Jacob was there. 

He had his back to me, facing the way he’d come. I 
waited warily for him to turn around. 

“Bella,” Edward murmured, suddenly right beside me. 
He stared down at me with nothing but concern 
showing in his eyes. There was no end to his 
generosity. I deserved him now less than I ever had. 

“There’s a bit of a complication,” he told me, his voice 
carefully unworried. “I’m going to take Seth a little 
ways away and try to straighten it out. I won’t go far, 
but I won’t listen, either. I know you don’t want an 
audience, no matter which way you decide to go.” 

Only at the very end did the pain break into his voice. 



560 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I had to never hurt him again. That would be my 
mission in life. Never again would I be the reason for 
this look to come into his eyes. 

I was too upset to even ask him what the new 
problem was. I didn’t need anything else right now. 

“Hurry back,” I whispered. 

He kissed me lightly on the lips, and then 
disappeared into the forest with Seth at his side. 

Jacob was still in the shadow of the trees; I couldn’t 
see his expression clearly. 

“I’m in a hurry, Bella,” he said in a dull voice. “Why 
don’t you get it over with?” 

I swallowed, my throat suddenly so dry I wasn’t sure 
if I could make sound come out. 

“Just say the words, and be done with it.” 

I took a deep breath. 

“I’m sorry I’m such a rotten person,” I whispered. “I’m 
sorry I’ve been so selfish. I wish I’d never met you, so 
I couldn’t hurt you the way I have. I won’t do it 
anymore, I promise. I’ll stay far away from you. I’ll 
move out of the state. You won’t have to look at me 
ever again.” 

“That’s not much of an apology,” he said bitterly. 

I couldn’t make my voice louder than a whisper. “Tell 
me how to do it right.” 



561 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What if I don’t want you to go away? What if I’d 
rather you stayed, selfish or not? Don’t I get any say, 
if you’re trying to make things up to me?” 

“That won’t help anything, Jake. It was wrong to stay 
with you when we wanted such different things. It’s 
not going to get better. I’ll just keep hurting you. I 
don’t want to hurt you anymore. I hate it.” My voice 
broke. 

He sighed. “Stop. You don’t have to say anything else. 

I understand.” 

I wanted to tell him how much I would miss him, but 
I bit my tongue. That would not help anything, either. 

He stood quietly for a moment, staring at the ground, 
and I fought against the urge to go and put my arms 
around him. To comfort him. 

And then his head snapped up. 

“Well, you’re not the only one capable of self- 
sacrifice,” he said, his voice stronger. “Two can play at 
that game.” 

“What?” 

“I’ve behaved pretty badly myself. I’ve made this much 
harder for you than I needed to. I could have given up 
with good grace in the beginning. But I hurt you, too.” 

“This is my fault.” 

“I won’t let you claim all the blame here, Bella. Or all 
the glory either. I know how to redeem myself.” 

“What are you talking about?” I demanded. The 
sudden, frenzied light in his eyes frightened me. 

562 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He glanced up at the sun and then smiled at me. 
“There’s a pretty serious fight brewing down there. I 
don’t think it will be that difficult to take myself out of 
the picture.” 

His words sank into my brain, slowly, one by one, and 
I couldn’t breathe. Despite all my intentions to cut 
Jacob out of my life completely, I didn’t realize until 
that precise second exactly how deep the knife would 
have to go to do it. 

“Oh, no, Jake! No, no no no,” I choked out in horror. 
“No, Jake, no. Please, no.” My knees began to 
tremble. 

“What’s the difference, Bella? This will only make it 
more convenient for everyone. You won’t even have to 
move.” 

“No!” My voice got louder. “No, Jacob! I won’t let you!” 

“How will you stop me?” he taunted lightly, smiling to 
take the sting out of his tone. 

“Jacob, I’m begging you. Stay with me.” I would have 
fallen to my knees, if I could have moved at all. 

“For fifteen minutes while I miss a good brawl? So 
that you can run away from me as soon as you think 
I’m safe again? You’ve got to be kidding.” 

“I won’t run away. I’ve changed my mind. We’ll work 
something out, Jacob. There’s always a compromise. 
Don’t go!” 

“You’re lying.” 

“I’m not. You know what a terrible liar I am. Look in 
my eyes. I’ll stay if you do.” 

563 I P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




His face hardened. “And I can be your best man at 
the wedding?” 

It was a moment before I could speak, and still the 
only answer I could give him was, “Please.” 

“That’s what I thought,” he said, his face going calm 
again, but for the turbulent light in his eyes. 

“I love you, Bella,” he murmured. 

“I love you, Jacob,” I whispered brokenly. 

He smiled. “I know that better than you do.” 

He turned to walk away. 

“Anything,” I called after him in a strangled voice. 
“Anything you want, Jacob. Just don’t do this!” 

He paused, turning slowly. 

“I don’t really think you mean that.” 

“Stay,” I begged. 

He shook his head. “No, I’m going.” He paused, as if 
deciding something. “But I could leave it to fate.” 

“What do you mean?” I choked out. 

“I don’t have to do anything deliberate — I could just 
do my best for my pack and let what happens 
happen.” He shrugged. “If you could convince me you 
really did want me to come back — more than you 
wanted to do the selfless thing.” 

“How?” I asked. 



564 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You could ask me,” he suggested. 

“Come back,” I whispered. How could he doubt that I 
meant it? 

He shook his head, smiling again. “That’s not what 
I’m talking about.” 

It took me a second to grasp what he was saying, and 
all the while he was looking at me with this superior 
expression — so sure of my reaction. As soon as the 
realization hit, though, I blurted out the words 
without stopping to count the cost. 

“Will you kiss me, Jacob?” 

His eyes widened in surprise, then narrowed 
suspiciously. “You’re bluffing.” 

“Kiss me, Jacob. Kiss me, and then come back.” 

He hesitated in the shadow, warring with himself. He 
half-turned again to the west, his torso twisting away 
from me while his feet stayed planted where they 
were. Still looking away, he took one uncertain step in 
my direction, and then another. He swung his face 
around to look at me, his eyes doubtful. 

I stared back. I had no idea what expression was on 
my face. 

Jacob rocked back on his heels, and then lurched 
forward, closing the distance between us in three long 
strides. 

I knew he would take advantage of the situation. I 
expected it. I held very still — my eyes closed, my 
fingers curled into fists at my sides — as his hands 



565 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




caught my face and his lips found mine with an 
eagerness that was not far from violence. 

I could feel his anger as his mouth discovered my 
passive resistance. One hand moved to the nape of 
my neck, twisting into a fist around the roots of my 
hair. The other hand grabbed roughly at my shoulder, 
shaking me, then dragging me to him. His hand 
continued down my arm, finding my wrist and pulling 
my arm up around his neck. I left it there, my hand 
still tightly balled up, unsure how far I could go in my 
desperation to keep him alive. All the while his lips, 
disconcertingly soft and warm, tried to force a 
response out of mine. 

As soon as he was sure I wouldn’t drop my arm, he 
freed my wrist, his hand feeling its way down to my 
waist. His burning hand found the skin at the small 
of my back, and he yanked me forward, bowing my 
body against his. 

His lips gave up on mine for a moment, but I knew he 
was nowhere close to finished. His mouth followed the 
line of my jaw, and then explored the length of my 
neck. He freed my hair, reaching for my other arm to 
draw it around his neck like the first. 

Then both of his arms were constricted around my 
waist, and his lips found my ear. 

“You can do better than this, Bella,” he whispered 
huskily. “You’re overthinking it.” 

I shivered as I felt his teeth graze my earlobe. 

“That’s right,” he murmured. “For once, just let 
yourself feel what you feel.” 



566 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I shook my head mechanically until one of his hands 
wound back into my hair and stopped me. 

His voice turned acidic. “Are you sure you want me to 
come back? Or did you really want me to die?” 

Anger rocked through me like the whiplash after a 
heavy punch. That was too much — he wasn’t 
fighting fair. 

My arms were already around his neck, so I grabbed 
two fistfuls of his hair — ignoring the stabbing pain in 
my right hand — and fought back, struggling to pull 
my face away from his. 

And Jacob misunderstood. 

He was too strong to recognize that my hands, trying 
to yank his hair out by the roots, meant to cause him 
pain. Instead of anger, he imagined passion. He 
thought I was finally responding to him. 

With a wild gasp, he brought his mouth back to mine, 
his fingers clutching frantically against the skin at my 
waist. 

The jolt of anger unbalanced my tenuous hold on self- 
control; his unexpected, ecstatic response overthrew 
it entirely. If there had been only triumph, I might 
have been able to resist him. But the utter 
defenselessness of his sudden joy cracked my 
determination, disabled it. My brain disconnected 
from my body, and I was kissing him back. Against all 
reason, my lips were moving with his in strange, 
confusing ways they’d never moved before — because 
I didn’t have to be careful with Jacob, and he 
certainly wasn’t being careful with me. 



567 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




My fingers tightened in his hair, but I was pulling him 
closer now. 



He was everywhere. The piercing sunlight turned my 
eyelids red, and the color fit, matched the heat. The 
heat was everywhere. I couldn’t see or hear or feel 
anything that wasn’t Jacob. 

The tiny piece of my brain that retained sanity 
screamed questions at me. 

Why wasn’t I stopping this? Worse than that, why 
couldn’t I find in myself even the desire to want to 
stop? What did it mean that I didn’t want him to 
stop? That my hands clung to his shoulders, and 
liked that they were wide and strong? That his hands 
pulled me too tight against his body, and yet it was 
not tight enough for me? 

The questions were stupid, because I knew the 
answer: I’d been lying to myself. 

Jacob was right. He’d been right all along. He was 
more than just my friend. That’s why it was so 
impossible to tell him goodbye — because I was in 
love with him. Too. I loved him, much more than I 
should, and yet, still nowhere near enough. I was in 
love with him, but it was not enough to change 
anything; it was only enough to hurt us both more. To 
hurt him worse than I ever had. 

I didn’t care about more than that — than his pain. I 
more than deserved whatever pain this caused me. I 
hoped it was bad. I hoped I would really suffer. 

In this moment, it felt as though we were the same 
person. His pain had always been and would always 
be my pain — now his joy was my joy. I felt joy, too, 
and yet his happiness was somehow also pain. 

568 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Almost tangible — it burned against my skin like 
acid, a slow torture. 

For one brief, never-ending second, an entirely 
different path expanded behind the lids of my tear- 
wet eyes. As if I were looking through the filter of 
Jacob’s thoughts, I could see exactly what I was going 
to give up, exactly what this new self-knowledge 
would not save me from losing. I could see Charlie 
and Renee mixed into a strange collage with Billy and 
Sam and La Push. I could see years passing, and 
meaning something as they passed, changing me. I 
could see the enormous red-brown wolf that I loved, 
always standing as protector if I needed him. For the 
tiniest fragment of that second, I saw the bobbing 
heads of two small, black-haired children, running 
away from me into the familiar forest. When they 
disappeared, they took the rest of the vision with 
them. 

And then, quite distinctly, I felt the splintering along 
the fissure line in my heart as the smaller part 
wrenched itself away from the whole. 

Jacob’s lips were still before mine were. I opened my 
eyes and he was staring at me with wonder and 
elation. 

“I have to leave,” he whispered. 

“No.” 

He smiled, pleased by my response. “I won’t be long,” 
he promised. “But one thing first ...” 

He bent to kiss me again, and there was no reason to 
resist. What would be the point? 



569 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




This time was different. His hands were soft on my 
face and his warm lips were gentle, unexpectedly 
hesitant. It was brief, and very, very sweet. 

His arms curled around me, and he hugged me 
securely while he whispered in my ear. 

“That should have been our first kiss. Better late than 
never.” 

Against his chest, where he couldn’t see, the tears 
welled up and spilled over. 



570 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




SNAP DECISION 




I lay facedown across the sleeping bag, waiting for 
justice to find me. Maybe an avalanche would bury 
me here. I wished it would. I never wanted to have to 
see my face in the mirror again. 

There was no sound to warn me. Out of nowhere, 
Edward’s cold hand stroked against my knotted hair. 

I shuddered guiltily at his touch. 

“Are you all right?” he murmured, his voice anxious. 
“No. I want to die.” 

“That will never happen. I won’t allow it.” 

I groaned and then whispered, “You might change 
your mind about that.” 

“Where’s Jacob?” 

“He went to fight,” I mumbled into the floor. 

Jacob had left the little camp joyfully — with a 
cheerful “I’ll be right back” — running full tilt for the 
clearing, already quivering as he prepared to shift to 
his other self. By now the whole pack knew 
everything. Seth Clearwater, pacing outside the tent, 
was an intimate witness to my disgrace. 

Edward was silent for a long moment. “Oh,” he finally 
said. 

The tone of his voice worried me that my avalanche 
wasn’t coming fast enough. I peeked up at him and, 

571 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



sure enough, his eyes were unfocused as he listened 
to something I’d rather die than have him hear. I 
dropped my face back to the floor. 

It stunned me when Edward chuckled reluctantly. 

“And I thought I fought dirty,” he said with grudging 
admiration. “He makes me look like the patron saint 
of ethics.” His hand brushed against the part of my 
cheek that was exposed. “I’m not mad at you, love. 
Jacob’s more cunning than I gave him credit for. I do 
wish you hadn’t asked him, though.” 

“Edward,” I whispered to the rough nylon. “I ... I ... 

I’m — ” 



“Shh,” he hushed me, his fingers soothing against my 
cheek. “That’s not what I meant. It’s just that he 
would have kissed you anyway — even if you hadn’t 
fallen for it — and now I don’t have an excuse to 
break his face. I would have really enjoyed that, too.” 

“Fallen for it?” I mumbled almost incomprehensibly. 

“Bella, did you really believe he was that noble? That 
he would go out in a flame of glory just to clear the 
way for me?” 

I raised my head slowly to meet his patient gaze. His 
expression was soft; his eyes were full of 
understanding rather than the revulsion I deserved to 
see. 

“Yes, I did believe that,” I muttered, and then looked 
away. But I didn’t feel any anger at Jacob for tricking 
me. There wasn’t enough room in my body to contain 
anything besides the hatred I felt toward myself. 



572 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward laughed softly again. “You’re such a bad liar, 
you’ll believe anyone who has the least bit of skill.” 



“Why aren’t you angry with me?” I whispered. “Why 
don’t you hate me? Or haven’t you heard the whole 
story yet?” 

“I think I got a fairly comprehensive look,” he said in a 
light, easy voice. “Jacob makes vivid mental pictures. 

I feel almost as bad for his pack as I do for myself. 
Poor Seth was getting nauseated. But Sam is making 
Jacob focus now.” 

I closed my eyes and shook my head in agony. The 
sharp nylon fibers of the tent floor scraped against my 
skin. 

“You’re only human,” he whispered, stroking my hair 
again. 

“That’s the most miserable defense I’ve ever heard.” 

“But you are human, Bella. And, as much as I might 
wish otherwise, so is he... . There are holes in your 
life that I can’t fill. I understand that.” 

“But that’s not true. That’s what makes me so 
horrible. There are no holes.” 

“You love him,” he murmured gently. 

Every cell in my body ached to deny it. 

“I love you more,” I said. It was the best I could do. 

“Yes, I know that, too. But ... when I left you, Bella, I 
left you bleeding. Jacob was the one to stitch you 
back up again. That was bound to leave its mark — 
on both of you. I’m not sure those kinds of stitches 

573 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




dissolve on their own. I can’t blame either of you for 
something I made necessary. I may gain forgiveness, 
but that doesn’t let me escape the consequences.” 

“I should have known you’d find some way to blame 
yourself. Please stop. I can’t stand it.” 

“What would you like me to say?” 

“I want you to call me every bad name you can think 
of, in every language you know. I want you to tell me 
that you’re disgusted with me and that you’re going to 
leave so that I can beg and grovel on my knees for you 
to stay.” 

“I’m sorry.” He sighed. “I can’t do that.” 

“At least stop trying to make me feel better. Let me 
suffer. I deserve it.” 

“No,” he murmured. 

I nodded slowly. “You’re right. Keep on being too 
understanding. That’s probably worse.” 

He was silent for a moment, and I sensed a charge in 
the atmosphere, a new urgency. 

“It’s getting close,” I stated. 

“Yes, a few more minutes now. Just enough time to 
say one more thing... .” 

I waited. When he finally spoke again, he was 
whispering. “I can be noble, Bella. I’m not going to 
make you choose between us. Just be happy, and you 
can have whatever part of me you want, or none at 
all, if that’s better. Don’t let any debt you feel you owe 
me influence your decision.” 

574 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I pushed off the floor, shoving myself up onto my 
knees. 



“Dammit, stop that!” I shouted at him. 

His eyes widened in surprise. “No — you don’t 
understand. I’m not just trying to make you feel 
better, Bella, I really mean it.” 

“I know you do,” I groaned. “What happened to 
fighting back? Don’t start with the noble self-sacrifice 
now! Fight!” 

“How?” he asked, and his eyes were ancient with their 
sadness. 

I scrambled into his lap, throwing my arms around 
him. 

“I don’t care that it’s cold here. I don’t care that I 
stink like a dog right now. Make me forget how awful I 
am. Make me forget him. Make me forget my own 
name. Fight back!” 

I didn’t wait for him to decide — or to have the chance 
to tell me he wasn’t interested in a cruel, faithless 
monster like me. I pulled myself against him and 
crushed my mouth to his snow-cold lips. 

“Careful, love,” he murmured under my urgent kiss. 

“No,” I growled. 

He gently pushed my face a few inches back. “You 
don’t have to prove anything to me.” 

“I’m not trying to prove something. You said I could 
have any part of you I wanted. I want this part. I want 
every part.” I wrapped my arms around his neck and 

575 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




strained to reach his lips. He bent his head to kiss me 
back, but his cool mouth was hesitant as my 
impatience grew more pronounced. My body was 
making my intentions clear, giving me away. 
Inevitably, his hands moved to restrain me. 

“Perhaps this isn’t the best moment for that,” he 
suggested, too calm for my liking. 

“Why not?” I grumbled. There was no point in fighting 
if he was going to be rational; I dropped my arms. 

“Firstly, because it is cold.” He reached out to pull the 
sleeping bag off the floor; he wrapped it around me 
like a blanket. 

“Wrong,” I said. “First, because you are bizarrely 
moral for a vampire.” 

He chuckled. “All right, I’ll give you that. The cold is 
second. And thirdly ... well, you do actually stink, 
love.” 

He wrinkled his nose. 

I sighed. 

“Fourthly,” he murmured, dropping his face so that 
he was whispering in my ear. “We will try, Bella. I’ll 
make good on my promise. But I’d much rather it 
wasn’t in reaction to Jacob Black.” 

I cringed, and buried my face against his shoulder. 

“And fifthly ...” 

“This is a very long list,” I muttered. 



576 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He laughed. “Yes, but did you want to listen to the 
fight or not?” 

As he spoke, Seth howled stridently outside the tent. 

My body stiffened to the sound. I didn’t realize my left 
hand was clenched into a fist, nails biting into my 
bandaged palm, until Edward took it and gently 
smoothed my fingers out. 

“It’s going to be fine, Bella,” he promised. “We’ve got 
skill, training, and surprise on our side. It will be over 
very soon. If I didn’t truly believe that, I would be 
down there now — and you’d be here, chained to a 
tree or something along those lines.” 

“Alice is so small,” I moaned. 

He chuckled. “That might be a problem ... if it were 
possible for someone to catch her.” 

Seth started to whimper. 

“What’s wrong?” I demanded. 

“He’s just angry that he’s stuck here with us. He 
knows the pack kept him out of the action to protect 
him. He’s salivating to join them.” 

I scowled in Seth’s general direction. 

“The newborns have reached the end of the trail — it 
worked like a charm, Jasper’s a genius — and they’ve 
caught the scent of the ones in the meadow, so 
they’re splitting into two groups now, as Alice said,” 
Edward murmured, his eyes focused on something far 
away. “Sam’s taking us around to head off the 
ambush party.” He was so intent on what he was 
hearing that he used the pack plural. 

577 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Suddenly he looked down at me. “Breathe, Bella.” 

I struggled to do what he asked. I could hear Seth’s 
heavy panting just outside the tent wall, and I tried to 
keep my lungs on the same even pace, so that I 
wouldn’t hyperventilate. 

“The first group is in the clearing. We can hear the 
fighting.” 

My teeth locked together. 

He laughed once. “We can hear Emmett — he’s 
enjoying himself.” 

I made myself take another breath with Seth. 

“The second group is getting ready — they aren’t 
paying attention, they haven’t heard us yet.” 

Edward growled. 

“What?” I gasped. 

“They’re talking about you.” His teeth clenched 
together. “They’re supposed to make sure you don’t 
escape... . Nice move, Leah! Mmm, she’s quite fast,” 
he murmured in approval. “One of the newborns 
caught our scent, and Leah took him down before he 
could even turn. Sam’s helping her finish him off. 

Paul and Jacob got another one, but the others are on 
the defensive now. They have no idea what to make of 
us. Both sides are feinting... . No, let Sam lead. Stay 
out of the way,” he muttered. “Separate them — don’t 
let them protect each other’s backs.” 

Seth whined. 



578 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“That’s better, drive them toward the clearing,” 

Edward approved. His body was shifting 
unconsciously as he watched, tensing for moves he 
would have made. His hands still held mine; I twisted 
my fingers through his. At least he wasn’t down there. 

The sudden absence of sound was the only warning. 

The deep rush of Seth’s breathing cut off, and — as 
I’d paced my breaths with his — I noticed. 

I stopped breathing, too — too frightened to even 
make my lungs work as I realized that Edward had 
frozen into a block of ice beside me. 

Oh, no. No. No. 

Who had been lost? Theirs or ours? Mine, all mine. 
What was my loss? 

So quickly that I wasn’t exactly sure how it happened, 
I was on my feet and the tent was collapsing in ragged 
shreds around me. Had Edward ripped our way out? 
Why? 

I blinked, shocked, into the brilliant light. Seth was 
all I could see, right beside us, his face only six 
inches from Edward’s. They stared at each other with 
absolute concentration for one infinite second. The 
sun shattered off Edward’s skin and sent sparkles 
dancing across Seth’s fur. 

And then Edward whispered urgently, “Go, Seth!” 

The huge wolf wheeled and disappeared into the 
forest shadows. 

Had two entire seconds passed? It felt like hours. I 
was terrified to the point of nausea by the knowledge 

579 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




that something horrible had gone awry in the 
clearing. I opened my mouth to demand that Edward 
take me there, and do it now. They needed him, and 
they needed me. If I had to bleed to save them, I 
would do it. I would die to do it, like the third wife. I 
had no silver dagger in my hand, but I would find a 
way — 

Before I could get the first syllable out, I felt as if I 
was being flung through the air. But Edward’s hands 
never let go of me — I was only being moved, so 
quickly that the sensation was like falling sideways. 

I found myself with my back pressed against the 
sheer cliff face. Edward stood in front of me, holding a 
posture that I knew at once. 

Relief washed through my mind at the same time that 
my stomach dropped through the soles of my feet. 

I’d misunderstood. 

Relief — nothing had gone wrong in the clearing. 
Horror — the crisis was here. 

Edward held a defensive position — half-crouched, 
his arms extended slightly — that I recognized with 
sickening certainty. The rock at my back could have 
been the ancient brick walls of the Italian alley where 
he had stood between me and the black-cloaked 
Volturi warriors. 

Something was coming for us. 

“Who?” I whispered. 

The words came through his teeth in a snarl that was 
louder than I expected. Too loud. It meant that it was 

580 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




far too late to hide. We were trapped, and it didn’t 
matter who heard his answer. 

“Victoria,” he said, spitting the word, making it a 
curse. “She’s not alone. She crossed my scent, 
following the newborns in to watch — she never 
meant to fight with them. She made a spur-of-the- 
moment decision to find me, guessing that you would 
be wherever I was. She was right. You were right. It 
was always Victoria.” 

She was close enough that he could hear her 
thoughts. 

Relief again. If it had been the Volturi, we were both 
dead. But with Victoria, it didn’t have to be both. 
Edward could survive this. He was a good fighter, as 
good as Jasper. If she didn’t bring too many others, 
he could fight his way out, back to his family. Edward 
was faster than anyone. He could make it. 

I was so glad he’d sent Seth away. Of course, there 
was no one Seth could run to for help. Victoria had 
timed her decision perfectly. But at least Seth was 
safe; I couldn’t see the huge sandy wolf in my head 
when I thought his name — just the gangly fifteen- 
year- old boy. 

Edward’s body shifted — only infinitesimally, but it 
told me where to look. I stared at the black shadows 
of the forest. 

It was like having my nightmares walk forward to 
greet me. 

Two vampires edged slowly into the small opening of 
our camp, eyes intent, missing nothing. They 
glistened like diamonds in the sun. 



581 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I could barely look at the blond boy — yes, he was 
just a boy, though he was muscular and tall, maybe 
my age when he was changed. His eyes — a more 
vivid red than I had ever seen before — could not hold 
mine. Though he was closest to Edward, the nearest 
danger, I could not watch him. 

Because, a few feet to the side and a few feet back, 
Victoria was staring at me. 

Her orange hair was brighter than I’d remembered, 
more like a flame. There was no wind here, but the 
fire around her face seemed to shimmer slightly, as if 
it were alive. 

Her eyes were black with thirst. She did not smile, as 
she always had in my nightmares — her lips were 
pressed into a tight line. There was a striking feline 
quality to the way she held her coiled body, a lioness 
waiting for an opening to spring. Her restless, wild 
gaze flickered between Edward and me, but never 
rested on him for more than a half-second. She could 
not keep her eyes from my face any more than I could 
keep mine from hers. 

Tension rolled off of her, nearly visible in the air. I 
could feel the desire, the all-consuming passion that 
held her in its grip. Almost as if I could hear her 
thoughts, too, I knew what she was thinking. 

She was so close to what she wanted — the focus of 
her whole existence for more than a year now was 
just so close. 

My death. 

Her plan was as obvious as it was practical. The big 
blond boy would attack Edward. As soon as Edward 
was sufficiently distracted, Victoria would finish me. 

582 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It would be quick — she had no time for games here 
— but it would be thorough. Something that it would 
be impossible to recover from. Something that even 
vampire venom could not repair. 

She’d have to stop my heart. Perhaps a hand shoved 
through my chest, crushing it. Something along those 
lines. 

My heart beat furiously, loudly, as if to make her 
target more obvious. 

An immense distance away, from far across the black 
forest, a wolfs howl echoed in the still air. With Seth 
gone, there was no way to interpret the sound. 

The blond boy looked at Victoria from the corner of 
his eye, waiting on her command. 

He was young in more ways than one. I guessed from 
his brilliant crimson irises that he couldn’t have been 
a vampire for very long. He would be strong, but 
inept. Edward would know how to fight him. Edward 
would survive. 

Victoria jerked her chin toward Edward, wordlessly 
ordering the boy forward. 

“Riley,” Edward said in a soft, pleading voice. 

The blond boy froze, his red eyes widening. 

“She’s lying to you, Riley,” Edward told him. “Listen to 
me. She’s lying to you just like she lied to the others 
who are dying now in the clearing. You know that 
she’s lied to them, that she had you lie to them, that 
neither of you were ever going to help them. Is it so 
hard to believe that she’s lied to you, too?” 



583 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Confusion swept across Riley’s face. 

Edward shifted a few inches to the side, and Riley 
automatically compensated with an adjustment of his 
own. 

“She doesn’t love you, Riley.” Edward’s soft voice was 
compelling, almost hypnotic. “She never has. She 
loved someone named James, and you’re no more 
than a tool to her.” 

When he said James’s name, Victoria’s lips pulled 
back in a teeth-baring grimace. Her eyes stayed 
locked on me. 

Riley cast a frantic glance in her direction. 

“Riley?” Edward said. 

Riley automatically refocused on Edward. 

“She knows that I will kill you, Riley. She wants you 
to die so that she doesn’t have to keep up the 
pretense anymore. Yes — you’ve seen that, haven’t 
you? You’ve read the reluctance in her eyes, 
suspected a false note in her promises. You were 
right. She’s never wanted you. Every kiss, every touch 
was a lie.” 

Edward moved again, moved a few inches toward the 
boy, a few inches away from me. 

Victoria’s gaze zeroed in on the gap between us. It 
would take her less than a second to kill me — she 
only needed the tiniest margin of opportunity. 

Slower this time, Riley repositioned himself. 



584 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You don’t have to die,” Edward promised, his eyes 
holding the boy’s. “There are other ways to live than 
the way she’s shown you. It’s not all lies and blood, 
Riley. You can walk away right now. You don’t have to 
die for her lies.” 

Edward slid his feet forward and to the side. There 
was a foot of space between us now. Riley circled too 
far, overcompensating this time. Victoria leaned 
forward onto the balls of her feet. 

“Last chance, Riley,” Edward whispered. 

Riley’s face was desperate as he looked to Victoria for 
answers. 

“He’s the liar, Riley,” Victoria said, and my mouth fell 
open in shock at the sound of her voice. “I told you 
about their mind tricks. You know I love only you.” 

Her voice was not the strong, wild, catlike growl I 
would have put with her face and stance. It was soft, 
it was high — a babyish, soprano tinkling. The kind of 
voice that went with blond curls and pink bubble 
gum. It made no sense coming through her bared, 
glistening teeth. 

Riley’s jaw tightened, and he squared his shoulders. 
His eyes emptied — there was no more confusion, no 
more suspicion. There was no thought at all. He 
tensed himself to attack. 

Victoria’s body seemed to be trembling, she was so 
tightly wound. Her fingers were ready claws, waiting 
for Edward to move just one more inch away from me. 

The snarl came from none of them. 



585 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




A mammoth tan shape flew through the center of the 
opening, throwing Riley to the ground. 

“No!” Victoria cried, her baby voice shrill with 
disbelief. 

A yard and a half in front of me, the huge wolf ripped 
and tore at the blond vampire beneath him. 

Something white and hard smacked into the rocks by 
my feet. I cringed away from it. 

Victoria did not spare one glance for the boy she’d 
just pledged her love to. Her eyes were still on me, 
filled with a disappointment so ferocious that she 
looked deranged. 

“No,” she said again, through her teeth, as Edward 
started to move toward her, blocking her path to me. 

Riley was on his feet again, looking misshapen and 
haggard, but he was able to fling a vicious kick into 
Seth’s shoulder. I heard the bone crunch. Seth 
backed off and started to circle, limping. Riley had his 
arms out, ready, though he seemed to be missing part 
of one hand... . 

Only a few yards away from that fight, Edward and 
Victoria were dancing. 

Not quite circling, because Edward was not allowing 
her to position herself closer to me. She sashayed 
back, moving from side to side, trying to find a hole in 
his defense. He shadowed her footwork lithely, 
stalking her with perfect concentration. He began to 
move just a fraction of a second before she moved, 
reading her intentions in her thoughts. 

Seth lunged at Riley from the side, and something 
tore with a hideous, grating screech. Another heavy 

586 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




white chunk flew into the forest with a thud. Riley 
roared in fury, and Seth skipped back — amazingly 
light on his feet for his size — as Riley took a swipe at 
him with one mangled hand. 

Victoria was weaving through the tree trunks at the 
far end of the little opening now. She was torn, her 
feet pulling her toward safety while her eyes yearned 
toward me as if I were a magnet, reeling her in. I 
could see the burning desire to kill warring with her 
survival instinct. 

Edward could see that, too. 

“Don’t go, Victoria,” he murmured in that same 
hypnotic tone as before. “You’ll never get another 
chance like this.” 

She showed her teeth and hissed at him, but she 
seemed unable to move farther away from me. 

“You can always run later,” Edward purred. “Plenty of 
time for that. It’s what you do, isn’t it? It’s why James 
kept you around. Useful, if you like to play deadly 
games. A partner with an uncanny instinct for 
escaping. He shouldn’t have left you — he could have 
used your skills when we caught up to him in 
Phoenix.” 

A snarl ripped from between her lips. 

“That’s all you ever were to him, though. Silly to 
waste so much energy avenging someone who had 
less affection for you than a hunter for his mount. 

You were never more than a convenience to him. I 
would know.” 

Edward’s lips pulled up on one side as he tapped his 
temple. 

587 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




With a strangled screech, Victoria darted out of the 
trees again, feinting to the side. Edward responded, 
and the dance began again. 

Just then, Riley’s fist caught Seth’s flank, and a low 
yelp coughed out of Seth’s throat. Seth backed away, 
his shoulders twitching as if he were trying to shake 
off the pain. 

Please, I wanted to plead with Riley, but I couldn’t 
find the muscles to make my mouth open, to pull the 
air up from my lungs. Please, he’s just a child! 

Why hadn’t Seth run away? Why didn’t he run now? 

Riley was closing the distance between them again, 
driving Seth toward the cliff face beside me. Victoria 
was suddenly interested in her partner’s fate. I could 
see her, from the corner of her eyes, judge the 
distance between Riley and me. Seth snapped at 
Riley, forcing him back again, and Victoria hissed. 

Seth wasn’t limping anymore. His circling took him 
within inches of Edward; his tail brushed Edward’s 
back, and Victoria’s eyes bulged. 

“No, he won’t turn on me,” Edward said, answering 
the question in Victoria’s head. He used her 
distraction to slide closer. “You provided us with a 
common enemy. You allied us.” 

She clenched her teeth, trying to keep her focus on 
Edward alone. 

“Look more closely, Victoria,” he murmured, pulling 
at the threads of her concentration. “Is he really so 
much like the monster James tracked across 
Siberia?” 



588 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Her eyes popped wide open, and then began flickering 
wildly from Edward to Seth to me, around and 
around. “Not the same?” she snarled in her little girl’s 
soprano. “Impossible!” 

“Nothing is impossible,” Edward murmured, voice 
velvet soft as he moved another inch closer to her. 
“Except what you want. You’ll never touch her.” 

She shook her head, fast and jerky, fighting his 
diversions, and tried to duck around him, but he was 
in place to block her as soon as she’d thought of the 
plan. Her face contorted in frustration, and then she 
shifted lower into her crouch, a lioness again, and 
stalked deliberately forward. 

Victoria was no inexperienced, instinct-driven 
newborn. She was lethal. Even I could tell the 
difference between her and Riley, and I knew that 
Seth wouldn’t have lasted so long if he’d been fighting 
this vampire. 

Edward shifted, too, as they closed on each other, 
and it was lion versus lioness. 

The dance increased in tempo. 

It was like Alice and Jasper in the meadow, a blurred 
spiraling of movement, only this dance was not as 
perfectly choreographed. Sharp crunches and 
crackings reverberated off the cliff face whenever 
someone slipped in their formation. But they were 
moving too fast for me to see who was making the 
mistakes... . 

Riley was distracted by the violent ballet, his eyes 
anxious for his partner. Seth struck, crunching off 
another small piece of the vampire. Riley bellowed 
and launched a massive backhanded blow that 

589 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




caught Seth full in his broad chest. Seth’s huge body 
soared ten feet and crashed into the rocky wall over 
my head with a force that seemed to shake the whole 
peak. I heard the breath whoosh from his lungs, and I 
ducked out of the way as he rebounded off the stone 
and collapsed on the ground a few feet in front of me. 

A low whimper escaped through Seth’s teeth. 

Sharp fragments of gray stone showered down on my 
head, scratching my exposed skin. A jagged spike of 
rock rolled down my right arm and I caught it 
reflexively. My fingers clenched around the long shard 
as my own survival instincts kicked in; since there 
was no chance of flight, my body — not caring how 
ineffectual the gesture was — prepared for a fight. 

Adrenaline jolted through my veins. I knew the brace 
was cutting into my palm. I knew the crack in my 
knuckle was protesting. I knew it, but I could not feel 
the pain. 

Behind Riley, all I could see was the twisting flame of 
Victoria’s hair and a blur of white. The increasingly 
frequent metallic snaps and tears, the gasps and 
shocked hissings, made it clear that the dance was 
turning deadly for someone. 

But which someone? 

Riley lurched toward me, his red eyes brilliant with 
fury. He glared at the limp mountain of sand-colored 
fur between us, and his hands — mangled, broken 
hands — curled into talons. His mouth opened, 
widened, his teeth glistening, as he prepared to rip 
out Seth’s throat. 

A second kick of adrenaline hit like an electric shock, 
and everything was suddenly very clear. 

590 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Both fights were too close. Seth was about to lose his, 
and I had no idea if Edward was winning or losing. 
They needed help. A distraction. Something to give 
them an edge. 

My hand gripped the stone spike so tightly that a 
support in the brace snapped. 

Was I strong enough? Was I brave enough? How hard 
could I shove the rough stone into my body? Would 
this buy Seth enough time to get back on his feet? 
Would he heal fast enough for my sacrifice to do him 
any good? 

I raked the point of the shard up my arm, yanking my 
thick sweater back to expose the skin, and then 
pressed the sharp tip to the crease at my elbow. I 
already had a long scar there from my last birthday. 
That night, my flowing blood had been enough to 
catch every vampire’s attention, to freeze them all in 
place for an instant. I prayed it would work that way 
again. I steeled myself and sucked in one deep breath. 

Victoria was distracted by the sound of my gasp. Her 
eyes, holding still for one tiny portion of a second, met 
mine. Fury and curiosity mingled strangely in her 
expression. 

I wasn’t sure how I heard the low sound with all the 
other noises echoing off the stone wall and 
hammering inside my head. My own heartbeat should 
have been enough to drown it out. But, in the split 
second that I stared into Victoria’s eyes, I thought I 
heard a familiar, exasperated sigh. 

In that same short second, the dance broke violently 
apart. It happened so quickly that it was over before I 
could follow the sequence of events. I tried to catch 
up in my head. 

591 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Victoria had flown out of the blurred formation and 
smashed into a tall spruce about halfway up the tree. 
She dropped back to the earth already crouched to 
spring. 

Simultaneously, Edward — all but invisible with 
speed — had twisted backward and caught the 
unsuspecting Riley by the arm. It had looked like 
Edward planted his foot against Riley’s back, and 
heaved — 

The little campsite was filled with Riley’s piercing 
shriek of agony. 

At the same time, Seth leaped to his feet, cutting off 
most of my view. 

But I could still see Victoria. And, though she looked 
oddly deformed — as if she were unable to straighten 
up completely — I could see the smile I’d been 
dreaming of flash across her wild face. 

She coiled and sprang. 

Something small and white whistled through the air 
and collided with her mid-flight. The impact sounded 
like an explosion, and it threw her against another 
tree — this one snapped in half. She landed on her 
feet again, crouched and ready, but Edward was 
already in place. Relief swelled in my heart when I 
saw that he stood straight and perfect. 

Victoria kicked something aside with a flick of her 
bare foot — the missile that had crippled her attack. 
It rolled toward me, and I realized what it was. 

My stomach lurched. 



592 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The fingers were still twitching; grasping at blades of 
grass, Riley’s arm began to drag itself mindlessly 
across the ground. 

Seth was circling Riley again, and now Riley was 
retreating. He backed away from the advancing 
werewolf, his face rigid with pain. He raised his one 
arm defensively. 

Seth rushed Riley, and the vampire was clearly off- 
balance. I saw Seth sink his teeth into Riley’s 
shoulder and tear, jumping back again. 

With an earsplitting metallic screech, Riley lost his 
other arm. 

Seth shook his head, flinging the arm into the woods. 
The broken hissing noise that came through Seth’s 
teeth sounded like snickering. 

Riley screamed out a tortured plea. “Victoria!” 

Victoria did not even flinch to the sound of her name. 
Her eyes did not flicker once toward her partner. 

Seth launched himself forward with the force of a 
wrecking ball. The thrust carried both Seth and Riley 
into the trees, where the metallic screeching was 
matched by Riley’s screams. Screams that abruptly 
cut off, while the sounds of rock being ripped to 
shreds continued. 

Though she spared Riley no farewell glance, Victoria 
seemed to realize that she was on her own. She began 
to back away from Edward, frenzied disappointment 
blazing in her eyes. She threw me one short, agonized 
stare of longing, and then she started to retreat 
faster. 



593 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“No,” Edward crooned, his voice seductive. “Stay just 
a little longer.” 

She wheeled and flew toward the refuge of the forest 
like an arrow from a bow. 

But Edward was faster — a bullet from a gun. 

He caught her unprotected back at the edge of the 
trees and, with one last, simple step, the dance was 
over. 

Edward’s mouth brushed once across her neck, like a 
caress. The squealing clamor coming from Seth’s 
efforts covered every other noise, so there was no 
discernible sound to make the image one of violence. 
He could have been kissing her. 

And then the fiery tangle of hair was no longer 
connected to the rest of her body. The shivering 
orange waves fell to the ground, and bounced once 
before rolling toward the trees. 



594 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





I forced my eyes — frozen wide open with shock — to 
move, so that I could not examine too closely the oval 
object wrapped in tendrils of shivering, fiery hair. 

Edward was in motion again. Swift and coolly 
businesslike, he dismembered the headless corpse. 

I could not go to him — I could not make my feet 
respond; they were bolted to the stone beneath them. 
But I scrutinized his every action minutely, looking 
for any evidence that he had been harmed. My heart 
slowed to a healthier rhythm when I found nothing. 

He was lithe and graceful as ever. I couldn’t even see 
a tear in his clothes. 

He did not look at me — where I stood frozen to the 
cliff wall, horrified — while he piled the quivering, 
twitching limbs and then covered them with dry pine 
needles. He still did not meet my shocked gaze as he 
darted into the forest after Seth. 

I didn’t have time to recover before both he and Seth 
were back, Edward with his arms full of Riley. Seth 
was carrying a large chunk — the torso — in his 
mouth. They added their burden to the pile, and 
Edward pulled a silver rectangle from his pocket. He 
flipped open the butane lighter and held the flame to 
the dry tinder. It caught at once; long tongues of 
orange fire licked rapidly across the pyre. 

“Get every piece,” Edward said in a low aside to Seth. 

Together, the vampire and the werewolf scoured the 
campsite, occasionally tossing small lumps of white 

595 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



stone into the blaze. Seth handled the pieces with his 
teeth. My brain wasn’t working well enough for me to 
understand why he didn’t change back to a form with 
hands. 

Edward kept his eyes on his work. 

And then they were done, and the raging fire was 
sending a pillar of choking purple toward the sky. The 
thick smoke curled up slowly, looking more solid than 
it should; it smelled like burning incense, and the 
scent was uncomfortable. It was heavy, too strong. 

Seth made that snickering sound again, deep in his 
chest. 

A smile flickered across Edward’s tense face. 

Edward stretched out his arm, his hand curled into a 
fist. Seth grinned, revealing the long row of dagger 
teeth, and bumped his nose against Edward’s hand. 

“Nice teamwork,” Edward murmured. 

Seth coughed a laugh. 

Then Edward took a deep breath, and turned slowly 
to face me. 

I did not understand his expression. His eyes were as 
wary as if I were another enemy — more than wary, 
they were afraid. Yet he’d shown no fear at all when 
he’d faced Victoria and Riley... . My mind was stuck, 
stunned and useless as my body. I stared at him, 
bewildered. 

“Bella, love,” he said in his softest tone, walking 
toward me with exaggerated slowness, his hands held 
up, palms forward. Dazed as I was, it reminded me 

596 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




oddly of a suspect approaching a policeman, showing 
that he wasn’t armed... . 

“Bella, can you drop the rock, please? Carefully. Don’t 
hurt yourself.” 

I’d forgotten all about my crude weapon, though I 
realized now that I was grasping it so hard that my 
knuckle was screaming in protest. Was it rebroken? 
Carlisle would put me in a cast for sure this time. 

Edward hesitated a few feet from me, his hands still 
in the air, his eyes still fearful. 

It took me a few long seconds to remember how to 
move my fingers. Then the rock clattered to the 
ground, while my hand stayed frozen in the same 
position. 

Edward relaxed slightly when my hands were empty, 
but came no closer. 

“You don’t have to be afraid, Bella,” Edward 
murmured. “You’re safe. I won’t hurt you.” 

The mystifying promise only confused me further. I 
stared at him like an imbecile, trying to understand. 

“It’s going to be all right, Bella. I know you’re 
frightened now, but it’s over. No one is going to hurt 
you. I won’t touch you. I won’t hurt you,” he said 
again. 

My eyes blinked furiously, and I found my voice. “Why 
do you keep saying that?” 

I took an unsteady step toward him, and he leaned 
away from my advance. 



597 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What’s wrong?” I whispered. “What do you mean?” 

“Are you ...” His golden eyes were suddenly as 
confused as I felt. “Aren’t you afraid of me?” 

“Afraid of you? Why?” 

I staggered forward another step, and then tripped 
over something — my own feet probably. Edward 
caught me, and I buried my face in his chest and 
started to sob. 

“Bella, Bella, I’m so sorry. It’s over, it’s over.” 

“I’m fine,” I gasped. “I’m okay. I’m just. Freaking out. 
Give me. A minute.” 

His arms tightened around me. “I’m so sorry,” he 
murmured again and again. 

I clung to him until I could breathe, and then I was 
kissing him — his chest, his shoulder, his neck — 
every part of him that I could reach. Slowly, my brain 
started to work again. 

“Are you okay?” I demanded between kisses. “Did she 
hurt you at all?” 

“I am absolutely fine,” he promised, burying his face 
in my hair. 

“Seth?” 

Edward chuckled. “More than fine. Very pleased with 
himself, in fact.” 

“The others? Alice, Esme? The wolves? 



598 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“All fine. It’s over there, too. It went just as smoothly 
as I promised. We got the worst of it here.” 

I let myself absorb that for a moment, let it sink in 
and settle in my head. 

My family and my friends were safe. Victoria was 
never coming after me again. It was over. 

We were all going to be fine. 

But I couldn’t completely take in the good news while 
I was still so confused. 

“Tell me why,” I insisted. “Why did you think I would 
be afraid of you?” 

“I’m sorry,” he said, apologizing yet again — for what? 
I had no idea. “So sorry. I didn’t want you to see that. 
See me like that. I know I must have terrified you.” 

I had to think about that for another minute, about 
the hesitant way he’d approached me, his hands in 
the air. Like I was going to run if he moved too fast... . 

“Seriously?” I finally asked. “You ... what? Thought 
you’d scared me off?” I snorted. Snorting was good; a 
voice couldn’t tremble or break during a snort. It 
sounded impressively offhand. 

He put his hand under my chin and tilted my head 
back to read my face. 

“Bella, I just” — he hesitated and then forced the 
words out — “I just beheaded and dismembered a 
sentient creature not twenty yards from you. That 
doesn’t bother you?” 



He frowned at me. 

599 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I shrugged. Shrugging was good, too. Very blase. “Not 
really. I was only afraid that you and Seth were going 
to get hurt. I wanted to help, but there’s only so much 
I can do... .” 

His suddenly livid expression made my voice fade out. 

“Yes,” he said, his tone clipped. “Your little stunt with 
the rock. You know that you nearly gave me a heart 
attack? Not the easiest thing to do, that.” 

His furious glower made it hard to answer. 

“I wanted to help ... Seth was hurt... .” 

“Seth was only feigning that he was hurt, Bella. It was 
a trick. And then you ... !” He shook his head, unable 
to finish. “Seth couldn’t see what you were doing, so I 
had to step in. Seth’s a bit disgruntled that he can’t 
claim a single-handed defeat now.” 

“Seth was . . . faking?” 

Edward nodded sternly. 

“Oh.” 

We both looked at Seth, who was studiously ignoring 
us, watching the flames. Smugness radiated from 
every hair in his fur. 

“Well, I didn’t know that,” I said, on the offense now. 
“And it’s not easy being the only helpless person 
around. Just you wait till I’m a vampire! I’m not going 
to be sitting on the sidelines next time.” 

A dozen emotions flitted across his face before he 
settled on being amused. “Next time? Did you 
anticipate another war soon?” 

600 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“With my luck? Who knows?” 



He rolled his eyes, but I could see that he was flying 

— the relief was making us both lightheaded. It was 
over. 

Or ... was it? 

“Hold on. Didn’t you say something before — ?” I 
flinched, remembering what exactly it had been before 

— what was I going to say to Jacob? My splintered 
heart throbbed out a painful, aching beat. It was hard 
to believe, almost impossible, but the hardest part of 
this day was not behind me — and then I soldiered 
on. “About a complication? And Alice, needing to nail 
down the schedule for Sam. You said it was going to 
be close. What was going to be close?” 

Edward’s eyes flickered back to Seth, and they 
exchanged a loaded glance. 

“Well?” I asked. 

“It’s nothing, really,” Edward said quickly. “But we do 
need to be on our way... .” 

He started to pull me into place on his back, but I 
stiffened and drew away. 

“Define nothing.” 

Edward took my face between his palms. “We only 
have a minute, so don’t panic, all right? I told you 
that you had no reason to be afraid. Trust me on that, 
please?” 

I nodded, trying to hide the sudden terror — how 
much more could I handle before I collapsed? “No 
reason to be afraid. Got it.” 

601 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He pursed his lips for a second, deciding what to say. 
And then he glanced abruptly at Seth, as if the wolf 
had called him. 

“What’s she doing?” Edward asked. 

Seth whined; it was an anxious, uneasy sound. It 
made the hair on the back of my neck rise. 

Everything was dead silent for one endless second. 

And then Edward gasped, “No!” and one of his hands 
flew out as if to grab something that I couldn’t see. 
“Don’t — !” 



A spasm rocked through Seth’s body, and a howl, 
blistering with agony, ripped from his lungs. 

Edward fell to his knees at the exact same moment, 
gripping the sides of his head with two hands, his 
face furrowed in pain. 

I screamed once in bewildered terror, and dropped to 
my knees beside him. Stupidly, I tried to pull his 
hands from his face; my palms, clammy with sweat, 
slid off his marble skin. 

“Edward! Edward!” 

His eyes focused on me; with obvious effort, he pulled 
his clenched teeth apart. 

“It’s okay. We’re going to be fine. It’s — ” He broke off, 
and winced again. 

“What’s happening?” I cried out while Seth howled in 
anguish. 



602 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“We’re fine. We’re going to be okay,” Edward gasped. 
“Sam — help him — ” 

And I realized in that instant, when he said Sam’s 
name, that he was not speaking of himself and Seth. 
No unseen force was attacking them. This time, the 
crisis was not here. 

He was using the pack plural. 

I’d burned through all my adrenaline. My body had 
nothing left. I sagged, and Edward caught me before I 
could hit the rocks. He sprang to his feet, me in his 
arms. 

“Seth!” Edward shouted. 

Seth was crouched, still tensed in agony, looking as if 
he meant to launch himself into the forest. 

“No!” Edward ordered. “You go straight home. Now. As 
fast as you can!” 

Seth whimpered, shaking his great head from side to 
side. 

“Seth. Trust me.” 

The huge wolf stared into Edward’s agonized eyes for 
one long second, and then he straightened up and 
flew into the trees, disappearing like a ghost. 

Edward cradled me tightly against his chest, and then 
we were also hurtling through the shadowy forest, 
taking a different path than the wolf. 

“Edward.” I fought to force the words through my 
constricted throat. “What happened, Edward? What 



603 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




happened to Sam? Where are we going? What’s 
happening?” 

“We have to go back to the clearing,” he told me in a 
low voice. “We knew there was a good probability of 
this happening. Earlier this morning, Alice saw it and 
passed it through Sam to Seth. The Volturi decided it 
was time to intercede.” 

The Volturi. 

Too much. My mind refused to make sense of the 
words, pretended it couldn’t understand. 

The trees jolted past us. He was running downhill so 
fast that it felt as if we were plummeting, falling out of 
control. 

“Don’t panic. They aren’t coming for us. It’s just the 
normal contingent of the guard that usually cleans up 
this kind of mess. Nothing momentous, they’re merely 
doing their job. Of course, they seem to have timed 
their arrival very carefully. Which leads me to believe 
that no one in Italy would mourn if these newborns 
had reduced the size of the Cullen family.” The words 
came through his teeth, hard and bleak. “I’ll know for 
sure what they were thinking when they get to the 
clearing.” 

“Is that why we’re going back?” I whispered. Could I 
handle this? Images of flowing black robes crept into 
my unwilling mind, and I flinched away from them. I 
was close to a breaking point. 

“It’s part of the reason. Mostly, it will be safer for us 
to present a united front at this point. They have no 
reason to harass us, but ... Jane’s with them. If she 
thought we were alone somewhere away from the 
others, it might tempt her. Like Victoria, Jane will 
604 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




probably guess that I’m with you. Demetri, of course, 
is with her. He could find me, if Jane asked him to.” 

I didn’t want to think that name. I didn’t want to see 
that blindingly exquisite, childlike face in my head. A 
strange sound came out of my throat. 

“Shh, Bella, shh. It’s all going to be fine. Alice can see 
that.” 

Alice could see? But . . . then where were the wolves? 
Where was the pack? 

“The pack?” 

“They had to leave quickly. The Volturi do not honor 
truces with werewolves.” 

I could hear my breathing get faster, but I couldn’t 
control it. I started to gasp. 

“I swear they will be fine,” Edward promised me. “The 
Volturi won’t recognize the scent — they won’t realize 
the wolves are here; this isn’t a species they are 
familiar with. The pack will be fine.” 

I couldn’t process his explanation. My concentration 
was ripped to shreds by my fears. We’re going to be 
fine, he had said before ... and Seth, howling in agony 
. . . Edward had avoided my first question, distracted 
me with the Volturi... . 

I was very close to the edge — just clinging by my 
fingertips. 

The trees were a racing blur that flowed around him 
like jade waters. 



605 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What happened?” I whispered again. “Before. When 
Seth was howling? When you were hurt?” 

Edward hesitated. 

“Edward! Tell me!” 

“It was all over,” he whispered. I could barely hear 
him over the wind his speed created. “The wolves 
didn’t count their half ... they thought they had them 
all. Of course, Alice couldn’t see... .” 

“What happened?!” 

“One of the newborns was hiding. . . . Leah found him 
— she was being stupid, cocky, trying to prove 
something. She engaged him alone... .” 

“Leah,” I repeated, and I was too weak to feel shame 
for the relief that flooded through me. “Is she going to 
be okay?” 

“Leah wasn’t hurt,” Edward mumbled. 

I stared at him for a long second. 

Sam — help him — Edward had gasped. Him, not 
her. 

“We’re almost there,” Edward said, and he stared at a 
fixed point in the sky. 

Automatically, my eyes followed his. There was a dark 
purple cloud hanging low over the trees. A cloud? But 
it was so abnormally sunny... . No, not a cloud — I 
recognized the thick column of smoke, just like the 
one at our campsite. 



606 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Edward,” I said, my voice nearly inaudible. “Edward, 
someone got hurt.” 

I’d heard Seth’s agony, seen the torture in Edward’s 
face. 

“Yes,” he whispered. 

“Who?” I asked, though, of course, I already knew the 
answer. 

Of course I did. Of course. 

The trees were slowing around us as we came to our 
destination. 

It took him a long moment to answer me. 

“Jacob,” he said. 

I was able to nod once. 

“Of course,” I whispered. 

And then I slipped off the edge I was clinging to inside 
my head. 

Everything went black. 

I was first aware of the cool hands touching me. More 
than one pair of hands. Arms holding me, a palm 
curved to fit my cheek, fingers stroking my forehead, 
and more fingers pressed lightly into my wrist. 

Then I was aware of the voices. They were just a 
humming at first, and then they grew in volume and 
clarity like someone was turning up a radio. 



607 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Carlisle — it’s been five minutes.” Edward’s voice, 
anxious. 

“She’ll come around when she’s ready, Edward.” 
Carlisle’s voice, always calm and sure. “She’s had too 
much to deal with today. Let her mind protect itself.” 

But my mind was not protected. It was trapped in the 
knowledge that had not left me, even in 
unconsciousness — the pain that was part of the 
blackness. 

I felt totally disconnected from my body. Like I was 
caged in some small corner of my head, no longer at 
the controls. But I couldn’t do anything about it. I 
couldn’t think. The agony was too strong for that. 
There was no escape from it. 

Jacob. 

No, no, no, no, no ... 

“Alice, how long do we have?” Edward demanded, his 
voice still tense; Carlisle’s soothing words had not 
helped. 

From farther away, Alice’s voice. It was brightly 
chipper. “Another five minutes. And Bella will open 
her eyes in thirty-seven seconds. I wouldn’t doubt 
that she can hear us now.” 

“Bella, honey?” This was Esme’s soft, comforting 
voice. “Can you hear me? You’re safe now, dear.” 

Yes, I was safe. Did that really matter? 

Then cool lips were at my ear, and Edward was 
speaking the words that allowed me to escape from 
the torture that had me caged inside my own head. 

608 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He’s going to live, Bella. Jacob Black is healing as I 
speak. He’ll be fine.” 

As the pain and dread eased, I found my way back to 
my body. My eyelids fluttered. 

“Oh, Bella,” Edward sighed in relief, and his lips 
touched mine. 

“Edward,” I whispered. 

“Yes, I’m here.” 

I got my lids to open, and I stared into warm gold. 
“Jacob is okay?” I asked. 

“Yes,” he promised. 

I watched his eyes carefully for some sign that he was 
placating me, but they were perfectly clear. 

“I examined him myself,” Carlisle said then; I turned 
my head to find his face, only a few feet away. 
Carlisle’s expression was serious and reassuring at 
the same time. It was impossible to doubt him. “His 
life is not in any danger. He was healing at an 
incredible rate, though his injuries were extensive 
enough that it will still be a few days before he is back 
to normal, even if the rate of repair holds steady. As 
soon as we’re done here, I will do what I can to help 
him. Sam is trying to get him to phase back to his 
human form. That will make treating him easier.” 
Carlisle smiled slightly. “I’ve never been to 
veterinarian school.” 

“What happened to him?” I whispered. “How bad are 
his injuries?” 



609 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Carlisle’s face was serious again. “Another wolf was in 
trouble — ” 

“Leah,” I breathed. 

“Yes. He knocked her out of the way, but he didn’t 
have time to defend himself. The newborn got his 
arms around him. Most of the bones on the right half 
of his body were shattered.” 

I flinched. 

“Sam and Paul got there in time. He was already 
improving when they took him back to La Push.” 

“He’ll be back to normal?” I asked. 

“Yes, Bella. He won’t have any permanent damage.” 

I took a deep breath. 

“Three minutes,” Alice said quietly. 

I struggled, trying to get vertical. Edward realized 
what I was doing and helped me to my feet. 

I stared at the scene in front of me. 

The Cullens stood in a loose semicircle around the 
bonfire. There were hardly any flames visible, just the 
thick, purple-black smoke, hovering like a disease 
against the bright grass. Jasper stood closest to the 
solid-seeming haze, in its shadow so that his skin did 
not glitter brilliantly in the sun the way the others 
did. He had his back to me, his shoulders tense, his 
arms slightly extended. There was something there, in 
his shadow. Something he crouched over with wary 
intensity... . 



610 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I was too numb to feel more than a mild shock when I 
realized what it was. 

There were eight vampires in the clearing. 

The girl was curled into a small ball beside the 
flames, her arms wrapped around her legs. She was 
very young. Younger than me — she looked maybe 
fifteen, dark-haired and slight. Her eyes were focused 
on me, and the irises were a shocking, brilliant red. 
Much brighter than Riley’s, almost glowing. They 
wheeled wildly, out of control. 

Edward saw my bewildered expression. 

“She surrendered,” he told me quietly. “That’s one I’ve 
never seen before. Only Carlisle would think of 
offering. Jasper doesn’t approve.” 

I couldn’t tear my gaze away from the scene beside 
the fire. Jasper was rubbing absently at his left 
forearm. 

“Is Jasper all right?” I whispered. 

“He’s fine. The venom stings.” 

“He was bitten?” I asked, horrified. 

“He was trying to be everywhere at once. Trying to 
make sure Alice had nothing to do, actually.” Edward 
shook his head. “Alice doesn’t need anyone’s help.” 

Alice grimaced toward her true love. “Overprotective 
fool.” 

The young female suddenly threw her head back like 
an animal and wailed shrilly. 



611 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jasper growled at her and she cringed back, but her 
fingers dug into the ground like claws and her head 
whipped back and forth in anguish. Jasper took a 
step toward her, slipping deeper into his crouch. 
Edward moved with overdone casualness, turning our 
bodies so that he was between the girl and me. I 
peeked around his arm to watch the thrashing girl 
and Jasper. 

Carlisle was at Jasper’s side in an instant. He put a 
restraining hand on his most recent son’s arm. 

“Have you changed your mind, young one?” Carlisle 
asked, calm as ever. “We don’t want to destroy you, 
but we will if you can’t control yourself.” 

“How can you stand it?” the girl groaned in a high, 
clear voice. “I want her.” Her bright crimson irises 
focused on Edward, through him, beyond him to me, 
and her nails ripped through the hard soil again. 

“You must stand it,” Carlisle told her gravely. “You 
must exercise control. It is possible, and it is the only 
thing that will save you now.” 

The girl clutched her dirt-encrusted hands around 
her head, yowling quietly. 

“Shouldn’t we move away from her?” I whispered, 
tugging on Edward’s arm. The girl’s lips pulled back 
over her teeth when she heard my voice, her 
expression one of torment. 

“We have to stay here,” Edward murmured. “They are 
coming to the north end of the clearing now.” 

My heart burst into a sprint as I scanned the clearing, 
but I couldn’t see anything past the thick pall of 
smoke. 

612 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




After a second of fruitless searching, my gaze crept 
back to the young female vampire. She was still 
watching me, her eyes half-mad. 

I met the girl’s stare for a long moment. Chin-length 
dark hair framed her face, which was alabaster pale. 

It was hard to tell if her features were beautiful, 
twisted as they were by rage and thirst. The feral red 
eyes were dominant — hard to look away from. She 
glared at me viciously, shuddering and writhing every 
few seconds. 

I stared at her, mesmerized, wondering if I were 
looking into a mirror of my future. 

Then Carlisle and Jasper began to back toward the 
rest of us. Emmett, Rosalie, and Esme all converged 
hastily around where Edward stood with Alice and 
me. A united front, as Edward had said, with me at 
the heart, in the safest place. 

I tore my attention away from the wild girl to search 
for the approaching monsters. 

There was still nothing to see. I glanced at Edward, 
and his eyes were locked straight ahead. I tried to 
follow his gaze, but there was only the smoke — 
dense, oily smoke twisting low to the ground, rising 
lazily, undulating against the grass. 

It billowed forward, darker in the middle. 

“Hmm,” a dead voice murmured from the mist. I 
recognized the apathy at once. 

“Welcome, Jane.” Edward’s tone was coolly courteous. 

The dark shapes came closer, separating themselves 
from the haze, solidifying. I knew it would be Jane in 

613 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




the front — the darkest cloak, almost black, and the 
smallest figure by more than two feet. I could just 
barely make out Jane’s angelic features in the shade 
of the cowl. 

The four gray-shrouded figures hulking behind her 
were also somewhat familiar. I was sure I recognized 
the biggest one, and while I stared, trying to confirm 
my suspicion, Felix looked up. He let his hood fall 
back slightly so that I could see him wink at me and 
smile. Edward was very still at my side, tightly in 
control. 

Jane’s gaze moved slowly across the luminous faces 
of the Cullens and then touched on the newborn girl 
beside the fire; the newborn had her head in her 
hands again. 

“I don’t understand.” Jane’s voice was toneless, but 
not quite as uninterested as before. 

“She has surrendered,” Edward explained, answering 
the confusion in her mind. 

Jane’s dark eyes flashed to his face. “Surrendered?” 

Felix and another shadow exchanged a quick glance. 

Edward shrugged. “Carlisle gave her the option.” 

“There are no options for those who break the rules,” 
Jane said flatly. 

Carlisle spoke then, his voice mild. “That’s in your 
hands. As long as she was willing to halt her attack 
on us, I saw no need to destroy her. She was never 
taught.” 

“That is irrelevant,” Jane insisted. 

614 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“As you wish.” 



Jane stared at Carlisle in consternation. She shook 
her head infinitesimally, and then composed her 
features. 

“Aro hoped that we would get far enough west to see 
you, Carlisle. He sends his regards.” 

Carlisle nodded. “I would appreciate it if you would 
convey mine to him.” 

“Of course.” Jane smiled. Her face was almost too 
lovely when it was animated. She looked back toward 
the smoke. “It appears that you’ve done our work for 
us today ... for the most part.” Her eyes flickered to 
the hostage. “Just out of professional curiosity, how 
many were there? They left quite a wake of 
destruction in Seattle.” 

“Eighteen, including this one,” Carlisle answered. 

Jane’s eyes widened, and she looked at the fire again, 
seeming to reassess the size of it. Felix and the other 
shadow exchanged a longer glance. 

“Eighteen?” she repeated, her voice sounding unsure 
for the first time. 

“All brand-new,” Carlisle said dismissively. “They were 
unskilled.” 

“All?” Her voice turned sharp. “Then who was their 
creator?” 

“Her name was Victoria,” Edward answered, no 
emotion in his voice. 

“Was?” Jane asked. 

615 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Edward inclined his head toward the eastern forest. 
Jane’s eyes snapped up and focused on something far 
in the distance. The other pillar of smoke? I didn’t 
look away to check. 

Jane stared to the east for a long moment, and then 
examined the closer bonfire again. 

“This Victoria — she was in addition to the eighteen 
here?” 

“Yes. She had only one other with her. He was not as 
young as this one here, but no older than a year.” 

“Twenty,” Jane breathed. “Who dealt with the 
creator?” 

“I did,” Edward told her. 

Jane’s eyes narrowed, and she turned to the girl 
beside the fire. 

“You there,” she said, her dead voice harsher than 
before. “Your name.” 

The newborn shot a baleful glare at Jane, her lips 
pressed tightly together. 

Jane smiled back angelically. 

The newborn girl’s answering scream was ear- 
piercing; her body arched stiffly into a distorted, 
unnatural position. I looked away, fighting the urge to 
cover my ears. I gritted my teeth, hoping to control 
my stomach. The screaming intensified. I tried to 
concentrate on Edward’s face, smooth and 
unemotional, but that made me remember when it 
had been Edward under Jane’s torturing gaze, and I 



616 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




felt sicker. I looked at Alice instead, and Esme next to 
her. Their faces were as empty as his. 

Finally, it was quiet. 

“Your name,” Jane said again, her voice inflectionless. 
“Bree,” the girl gasped. 

Jane smiled, and the girl shrieked again. I held my 
breath until the sound of her agony stopped. 

“Shell tell you anything you want to know,” Edward 
said through his teeth. “You don’t have to do that.” 

Jane looked up, sudden humor in her usually dead 
eyes. “Oh, I know,” she said to Edward, grinning at 
him before she turned back to the young vampire, 
Bree. 

“Bree,” Jane said, her voice cold again. “Is his story 
true? Were there twenty of you?” 

The girl lay panting, the side of her face pressed 
against the earth. She spoke quickly. “Nineteen or 
twenty, maybe more, I don’t know!” She cringed, 
terrified that her ignorance might bring on another 
round of torture. “Sara and the one whose name I 
don’t know got in a fight on the way... .” 

“And this Victoria — did she create you?” 

“I don’t know,” she said, flinching again. “Riley never 
said her name. I didn’t see that night ... it was so 
dark, and it hurt... .” Bree shuddered. “He didn’t want 
us to be able to think of her. He said that our 
thoughts weren’t safe... .” 



617 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jane’s eyes flickered to Edward, and then back to the 
girl. 

Victoria had planned this well. If she hadn’t followed 
Edward, there would have been no way to know for 
certain that she was involved... . 

“Tell me about Riley,” Jane said. “Why did he bring 
you here?” 

“Riley told us that we had to destroy the strange 
yellow-eyes here,” Bree babbled quickly and willingly. 
“He said it would be easy. He said that the city was 
theirs, and they were coming to get us. He said once 
they were gone, all the blood would be ours. He gave 
us her scent.” Bree lifted one hand and stabbed a 
finger in my direction. “He said we would know that 
we had the right coven, because she would be with 
them. He said whoever got to her first could have 
her.” 

I heard Edward’s jaw flex beside me. 

“It looks like Riley was wrong about the easy part,” 
Jane noted. 

Bree nodded, seeming relieved that the conversation 
had taken this non-painful course. She sat up 
carefully. “I don’t know what happened. We split up, 
but the others never came. And Riley left us, and he 
didn’t come to help like he promised. And then it was 
so confusing, and everybody was in pieces.” She 
shuddered again. “I was afraid. I wanted to run away. 
That one” — she looked at Carlisle — “said they 
wouldn’t hurt me if I stopped fighting.” 

“Ah, but that wasn’t his gift to offer, young one,” Jane 
murmured, her voice oddly gentle now. “Broken rules 
demand a consequence.” 

618 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Bree stared at her, not comprehending. 



Jane looked at Carlisle. “Are you sure you got all of 
them? The other half that split off?” 

Carlisle’s face was very smooth as he nodded. “We 
split up, too.” 

Jane half-smiled. “I can’t deny that I’m impressed.” 
The big shadows behind her murmured in agreement. 
“I’ve never seen a coven escape this magnitude of 
offensive intact. Do you know what was behind it? It 
seems like extreme behavior, considering the way you 
live here. And why was the girl the key?” Her eyes 
rested unwilling on me for one short second. 

I shivered. 

“Victoria held a grudge against Bella,” Edward told 
her, his voice impassive. 

Jane laughed — the sound was golden, the bubbling 
laugh of a happy child. “This one seems to bring out 
bizarrely strong reactions in our kind,” she observed, 
smiling directly at me, her face beatific. 

Edward stiffened. I looked at him in time to see his 
face turning away, back to Jane. 

“Would you please not do that?” he asked in a tight 
voice. 

Jane laughed again lightly. “Just checking. No harm 
done, apparently.” 

I shivered, deeply grateful that the strange glitch in 
my system — which had protected me from Jane the 
last time we’d met — was still in effect. Edward’s arm 
tightened around me. 

619 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well, it appears that there’s not much left for us to 
do. Odd,” Jane said, apathy creeping back into her 
voice. “We’re not used to being rendered unnecessary. 
It’s too bad we missed the fight. It sounds like it 
would have been entertaining to watch.” 

“Yes,” Edward answered her quickly, his voice sharp. 
“And you were so close. It’s a shame you didn’t arrive 
just a half hour earlier. Perhaps then you could have 
fulfilled your purpose here.” 

Jane met Edward’s glare with unwavering eyes. “Yes. 
Quite a pity how things turned out, isn’t it?” 

Edward nodded once to himself, his suspicions 
confirmed. 

Jane turned to look at the newborn Bree again, her 
face completely bored. “Felix?” she drawled. 

“Wait,” Edward interjected. 

Jane raised one eyebrow, but Edward was staring at 
Carlisle while he spoke in an urgent voice. “We could 
explain the rules to the young one. She doesn’t seem 
unwilling to learn. She didn’t know what she was 
doing.” 

“Of course,” Carlisle answered. “We would certainly 
be prepared to take responsibility for Bree.” 

Jane’s expression was torn between amusement and 
disbelief. 

“We don’t make exceptions,” she said. “And we don’t 
give second chances. It’s bad for our reputation. 
Which reminds me ...” Suddenly, her eyes were on me 
again, and her cherubic face dimpled. “Caius will be 



620 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




so interested to hear that you’re still human, Bella. 
Perhaps he’ll decide to visit.” 

“The date is set,” Alice told Jane, speaking for the first 
time. “Perhaps we’ll come to visit you in a few 
months.” 

Jane’s smile faded, and she shrugged indifferently, 
never looking at Alice. She turned to face Carlisle. “It 
was nice to meet you, Carlisle — I’d thought Aro was 
exaggerating. Well, until we meet again ...” 

Carlisle nodded, his expression pained. 

“Take care of that, Felix,” Jane said, nodding toward 
Bree, her voice dripping boredom. “I want to go 
home.” 

“Don’t watch,” Edward whispered in my ear. 

I was only too eager to follow his instruction. I’d seen 
more than enough for one day — more than enough 
for one lifetime. I squeezed my eyes tightly together 
and turned my face into Edward’s chest. 

But I could still hear. 

There was a deep, rumbling growl, and then a high- 
pitched keen that was horribly familiar. That sound 
cut off quickly, and then the only sound was a 
sickening crunching and snapping. 

Edward’s hand rubbed anxiously against my 
shoulders. 

“Come,” Jane said, and I looked up in time to see the 
backs of the tall gray cloaks drifting away toward the 
curling smoke. The incense smell was strong again — 
fresh. 

621 I P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




The gray cloaks disappeared into the thick mist. 



622 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 







ETHICS 



The counter in Alice's bathroom was covered with a 
thousand different products, all claiming to beautify a 
person’s surface. Since everyone in this house was 
both perfect and impermeable, I could only assume 
that she’d bought most of these things with me in 
mind. I read the labels numbly, struck by the waste. 

I was careful never to look in the long mirror. 

Alice combed through my hair with a slow, rhythmic 
motion. 

“That’s enough, Alice,” I said tonelessly. “I want to go 
back to La Push.” 

How many hours had I waited for Charlie to finally 
leave Billy’s house so that I could see Jacob? Each 
minute, not knowing if Jacob was still breathing or 
not, had seemed like ten lifetimes. And then, when at 
last I’d been allowed to go, to see for myself that 
Jacob was alive, the time had gone so quickly. I felt 
like I’d barely caught my breath before Alice was 
calling Edward, insisting that I keep up this 
ridiculous sleepover fagade. It seemed so 
insignificant... . 

“Jacob’s still unconscious,” Alice answered. “Carlisle 
or Edward will call when he’s awake. Anyway, you 
need to go see Charlie. He was there at Billy’s house, 
he saw that Carlisle and Edward are back in from 
their trip, and he’s bound to be suspicious when you 
get home.” 



623 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



I already had my story memorized and corroborated. 

“I don’t care. I want to be there when Jacob wakes 
up.” 

“You need to think of Charlie now. You’ve had a long 
day — sorry, I know that doesn’t begin to cover it — 
but that doesn’t mean that you can shirk your 
responsibilities.” Her voice was serious, almost 
chiding. “It’s more important now than ever that 
Charlie stays safely in the dark. Play your role first, 
Bella, and then you can do what you want second. 
Part of being a Cullen is being meticulously 
responsible.” 

Of course she was right. And if not for this same 
reason — a reason that was more powerful than all 
my fear and pain and guilt — Carlisle would never 
have been able to talk me into leaving Jacob’s side, 
unconscious or not. 

“Go home,” Alice ordered. “Talk to Charlie. Flesh out 
your alibi. Keep him safe.” 

I stood, and the blood flowed down to my feet, 
stinging like the pricks of a thousand needles. I’d 
been sitting still for a long time. 

“That dress is adorable on you,” Alice cooed. 

“Huh? Oh. Er — thanks again for the clothes,” I 
mumbled out of courtesy rather than real gratitude. 

“You need the evidence,” Alice said, her eyes innocent 
and wide. “What’s a shopping trip without a new 
outfit? It’s very flattering, if I do say so myself.” 

I blinked, unable to remember what she’d dressed me 
in. I couldn’t keep my thoughts from skittering away 
every few seconds, insects running from the light... . 

624 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jacob is fine, Bella,” Alice said, easily interpreting 
my preoccupation. “There’s no hurry. If you realized 
how much extra morphine Carlisle had to give him — 
what with his temperature burning it off so quickly — 
you would know that he’s going to be out for a while.” 

At least he wasn’t in any pain. Not yet. 

“Is there anything you want to talk about before you 
leave?” Alice asked sympathetically. “You must be 
more than a little traumatized.” 

I knew what she was curious about. But I had other 
questions. 

“Will I be like that?” I asked her, my voice subdued. 
“Like that girl Bree in the meadow?” 

There were many things I needed to think of, but I 
couldn’t seem to get her out of my head, the newborn 
whose other life was now — abruptly — over. Her 
face, twisted with desire for my blood, lingered behind 
my eyelids. 

Alice stroked my arm. “Everyone is different. But 
something like that, yes.” 

I was very still, trying to imagine. 

“It passes,” she promised. 

“How soon?” 

She shrugged. “A few years, maybe less. It might be 
different for you. I’ve never seen anyone go through 
this who’s chosen it beforehand. It should be 
interesting to see how that affects you.” 

“Interesting,” I repeated. 

625 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Well keep you out of trouble.” 



“I know that. I trust you.” My voice was monotone, 
dead. 

Alice’s forehead puckered. “If you’re worried about 
Carlisle and Edward, I’m sure they’ll be fine. I believe 
Sam is beginning to trust us ... well, to trust Carlisle, 
at least. It’s a good thing, too. I imagine the 
atmosphere got a little tense when Carlisle had to 
rebreak the fractures — ” 

“Please, Alice.” 

“Sorry.” 

I took a deep breath to steady myself. Jacob had 
begun healing too quickly, and some of his bones had 
set wrong. He’d been out cold for the process, but it 
was still hard to think about. 

“Alice, can I ask you a question? About the future?” 

She was suddenly wary. “You know I don’t see 
everything.” 

“It’s not that, exactly. But you do see my future, 
sometimes. Why is that, do you think, when nothing 
else works on me? Not what Jane can do, or Edward 
or Aro ...” My sentence trailed off with my interest 
level. My curiosity on this point was fleeting, heavily 
overshadowed by more pressing emotions. 

Alice, however, found the question very interesting. 
“Jasper, too, Bella — his talent works on your body 
just as well as it does on anyone else’s. That’s the 
difference, do you see it? Jasper’s abilities affect the 
body physically. He really does calm your system 
down, or excite it. It’s not an illusion. And I see 
626 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




visions of outcomes, not the reasons and thoughts 
behind the decisions that create them. It’s outside the 
mind, not an illusion, either; reality, or at least one 
version of it. But Jane and Edward and Aro and 
Demetri — they work inside the mind. Jane only 
creates an illusion of pain. She doesn’t really hurt 
your body, you only think you feel it. You see, Bella? 
You are safe inside your mind. No one can reach you 
there. It’s no wonder that Aro was so curious about 
your future abilities.” 

She watched my face to see if I was following her 
logic. In truth, her words had all started to run 
together, the syllables and sounds losing their 
meaning. I couldn’t concentrate on them. Still, I 
nodded. Trying to look like I got it. 

She wasn’t fooled. She stroked my cheek and 
murmured, “He’s going to be okay, Bella. I don’t need 
a vision to know that. Are you ready to go?” 

“One more thing. Can I ask you another question 
about the future? I don’t want specifics, just an 
overview.” 

“I’ll do my best,” she said, doubtful again. 

“Can you still see me becoming a vampire?” 

“Oh, that’s easy. Sure, I do.” 

I nodded slowly. 

She examined my face, her eyes unfathomable. “Don’t 
you know your own mind, Bella?” 

“I do. I just wanted to be sure.” 



627 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm only as sure as you are, Bella. You know that. If 
you were to change your mind, what I see would 
change ... or disappear, in your case.” 

I sighed. “That isn’t going to happen, though.” 

She put her arms around me. “I’m sorry. I can’t really 
empathize. My first memory is of seeing Jasper’s face 
in my future; I always knew that he was where my life 
was headed. But I can sympathize. I’m so sorry you 
have to choose between two good things.” 

I shook off her arms. “Don’t feel sorry for me.” There 
were people who deserved sympathy. I wasn’t one of 
them. And there wasn’t any choice to make — there 
was just breaking a good heart to attend to now. “I’ll 
go deal with Charlie.” 

I drove my truck home, where Charlie was waiting 
just as suspiciously as Alice had expected. 

“Hey, Bella. How was your shopping trip?” he greeted 
me when I walked into the kitchen. He had his arms 
folded over his chest, his eyes on my face. 

“Long,” I said dully. “We just got back.” 

Charlie assessed my mood. “I guess you already 
heard about Jake, then?” 

“Yes. The rest of the Cullens beat us home. Esme told 
us where Carlisle and Edward were.” 

“Are you okay?” 

“Worried about Jake. As soon as I make dinner, I’m 
going down to La Push.” 



628 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I told you those motorcycles were dangerous. I hope 
this makes you realize that I wasn’t kidding around.” 

I nodded as I started pulling things out of the fridge. 
Charlie settled himself in at the table. He seemed to 
be in a more talkative mood than usual. 

“I don’t think you need to worry about Jake too much. 
Anyone who can cuss with that kind of energy is 
going to recover.” 

“Jake was awake when you saw him?” I asked, 
spinning to look at him. 

“Oh, yeah, he was awake. You should have heard him 
— actually, it’s better you didn’t. I don’t think there 
was anyone in La Push who couldn’t hear him. I don’t 
know where he picked up that vocabulary, but I hope 
he hasn’t been using that kind of language around 
you.” 

“He had a pretty good excuse today. How did he 
look?” 

“Messed up. His friends carried him in. Good thing 
they’re big boys, ’cause that kid’s an armful. Carlisle 
said his right leg is broken, and his right arm. Pretty 
much the whole right side of his body got crushed 
when he wrecked that damn bike.” Charlie shook his 
head. “If I ever hear of you riding again, Bella — ” 

“No problem there, Dad. You won’t. Do you really 
think Jake’s okay?” 

“Sure, Bella, don’t worry. He was himself enough to 
tease me.” 

“Tease you?” I echoed in shock. 



629 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yeah — in between insulting somebody’s mother and 
taking the Lord’s name in vain, he said, ‘Bet you’re 
glad she loves Cullen instead of me today, huh, 
Charlie?”’ 

I turned back to the fridge so that he couldn’t see my 
face. 

“And I couldn’t argue. Edward’s more mature than 
Jacob when it comes to your safety, I’ll give him that 
much.” 

“Jacob’s plenty mature,” I muttered defensively. “I’m 
sure this wasn’t his fault.” 

“Weird day today,” Charlie mused after a minute. 

“You know, I don’t put much stock in that 
superstitious crap, but it was odd... . It was like Billy 
knew something bad was going to happen to Jake. He 
was nervous as a turkey on Thanksgiving all morning. 
I don’t think he heard anything I said to him. 

“And then, weirder than that — remember back in 
February and March when we had all that trouble 
with the wolves?” 

I bent down to get a frying pan out of the cupboard, 
and hid there an extra second or two. 

“Yeah,” I mumbled. 

“I hope we’re not going to have a problem with that 
again. This morning, we were out in the boat, and 
Billy wasn’t paying any attention to me or the fish, 
when all of a sudden, you could hear wolves yowling 
in the woods. More than one, and, boy, was it loud. 
Sounded like they were right there in the village. 
Weirdest part was, Billy turned the boat around and 
headed straight back to the harbor like they were 
630 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




calling to him personally. Didn’t even hear me ask 
what he was doing. 



“The noise stopped before we got the boat docked. But 
all of a sudden Billy was in the biggest hurry not to 
miss the game, though we had hours still. He was 
mumbling some nonsense about an earlier showing ... 
of a live game? I tell you, Bella, it was odd. 

“Well, he found some game he said he wanted to 
watch, but then he just ignored it. He was on the 
phone the whole time, calling Sue, and Emily, and 
your friend Quil’s grandpa. Couldn’t quite make out 
what he was looking for — he just chatted real casual 
with them. 

“Then the howling started again right outside the 
house. I’ve never heard anything like it — I had goose 
bumps on my arms. I asked Billy — had to shout over 
the noise — if he’d been setting traps in his yard. It 
sounded like the animal was in serious pain.” 

I winced, but Charlie was so caught up in his story 
that he didn’t notice. 

“’Course I forgot all about that till just this minute, 
’cause that’s when Jake made it home. One minute it 
was that wolf yowling, and then you couldn’t hear it 
anymore — Jake’s cussing drowned it right out. Got a 
set of lungs on him, that boy does.” 

Charlie paused for a minute, his face thoughtful. 
“Funny that some good should come out of this mess. 

I didn’t think they were ever going to get over that fool 
prejudice they have against the Cullens down there. 
But somebody called Carlisle, and Billy was real 
grateful when he showed up. I thought we should get 
Jake up to the hospital, but Billy wanted to keep him 
home, and Carlisle agreed. I guess Carlisle knows 
631 | P a g e Eclipse -Stephanie Meyer 




what’s best. Generous of him to sign up for such a 
long stretch of house calls.” 

“And ...” he paused, as if unwilling to say something. 
He sighed, and then continued. “And Edward was 
really ... nice. He seemed as worried about Jacob as 
you are — like that was his brother lying there. The 
look in his eyes ...” Charlie shook his head. “He’s a 
decent guy, Bella. I’ll try to remember that. No 
promises, though.” He grinned at me. 

“I won’t hold you to it,” I mumbled. 

Charlie stretched his legs and groaned. “It’s nice to be 
home. You wouldn’t believe how crowded Billy’s little 
place gets. Seven of Jake’s friends all squished 
themselves into that little front room — I could hardly 
breathe. Have you ever noticed how big those 
Quileute kids all are?” 

“Yeah, I have.” 

Charlie stared at me, his eyes abruptly more focused. 
“Really, Bella, Carlisle said Jake will be up and 
around in no time. Said it looked a lot worse than it 
was. He’s going to be fine.” 

I just nodded. 

Jacob had looked so ... strangely fragile when I’d 
hurried down to see him as soon as Charlie had left. 
He’d had braces everywhere — Carlisle said there was 
no point in plaster, as fast as he was healing. His face 
had been pale and drawn, deeply unconscious though 
he was at the time. Breakable. Huge as he was, he’d 
looked very breakable. Maybe that had just been my 
imagination, coupled with the knowledge that I was 
going to have to break him. 



632 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




If only I could be struck by lightning and be split in 
two. Preferably painfully. For the first time, giving up 
being human felt like a true sacrifice. Like it might be 
too much to lose. 

I put Charlie’s dinner on the table next to his elbow 
and headed for the door. 

“Er, Bella? Could you wait just a second?” 

“Did I forget something?” I asked, eyeing his plate. 

“No, no. I just ... want to ask a favor.” Charlie frowned 
and looked at the floor. “Have a seat — this won’t take 
long.” 

I sat across from him, a little confused. I tried to 
focus. “What do you need, Dad?” 

“Here’s the gist of it, Bella.” Charlie flushed. “Maybe 
I’m just feeling ... superstitious after hanging out with 
Billy while he was being so strange all day. But I have 
this ... hunch. I feel like ... I’m going to lose you 
soon.” 

“Don’t be silly, Dad,” I mumbled guiltily. “You want 
me to go to school, don’t you?” 

“Just promise me one thing.” 

I was hesitant, ready to rescind. “Okay ...” 

“Will you tell me before you do anything major? 

Before you run off with him or something?” 

“Dad ... ,” I moaned. 



633 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




‘Tm serious. I won’t kick up a fuss. Just give me 
some advance notice. Give me a chance to hug you 
goodbye.” 

Cringing mentally, I held up my hand. “This is silly. 
But, if it makes you happy, ... I promise.” 

“Thanks, Bella,” he said. “I love you, kid.” 

“I love you, too, Dad.” I touched his shoulder, and 
then shoved away from the table. “If you need 
anything, I’ll be at Billy’s.” 

I didn’t look back as I ran out. This was just perfect, 
just what I needed right now. I grumbled to myself all 
the way to La Push. 

Carlisle’s black Mercedes was not in front of Billy’s 
house. That was both good and bad. Obviously, I 
needed to talk to Jacob alone. Yet I still wished I 
could somehow hold Edward’s hand, like I had before, 
when Jacob was unconscious. Impossible. But I 
missed Edward — it had seemed like a very long 
afternoon alone with Alice. I supposed that made my 
answer quite obvious. I already knew that I couldn’t 
live without Edward. That fact wasn’t going to make 
this any less painful. 

I tapped quietly on the front door. 

“Come in, Bella,” Billy said. The roar of my truck was 
easy to recognize. 

I let myself in. 

“Hey, Billy. Is he awake?” I asked. 



634 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“He woke up about a half hour ago, just before the 
doctor left. Go on in. I think he’s been waiting for 
you.” 

I flinched, and then took a deep breath. “Thanks.” 

I hesitated at the door to Jacob’s room, not sure 
whether to knock. I decided to peek first, hoping — 
coward that I was — that maybe he’d gone back to 
sleep. I felt like I could use just a few more minutes. 

I opened the door a crack and leaned hesitantly in. 

Jacob was waiting for me, his face calm and smooth. 
The haggard, gaunt look was gone, but only a careful 
blankness took its place. There was no animation in 
his dark eyes. 

It was hard to look at his face, knowing that I loved 
him. It made more of a difference than I would have 
thought. I wondered if it had always been this hard 
for him, all this time. 

Thankfully, someone had covered him with a quilt. It 
was a relief not to have to see the extent of the 
damage. 

I stepped in and shut the door quietly behind me. 

“Hi, Jake,” I murmured. 

He didn’t answer at first. He looked at my face for a 
long moment. Then, with some effort, he rearranged 
his expression into a slightly mocking smile. 

“Yeah, I sort of thought it might be like that.” He 
sighed. “Today has definitely taken a turn for the 
worse. First I pick the wrong place, miss the best 
fight, and Seth gets all the glory. Then Leah has to be 

635 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




an idiot trying to prove she’s as tough as the rest of 
us and I have to be the idiot who saves her. And now 
this.” He waved his left hand toward me where I 
hesitated by the door. 

“How are you feeling?” I mumbled. What a stupid 
question. 

“A little stoned. Dr. Fang isn’t sure how much pain 
medication I need, so he’s going with trial and error. 
Think he overdid it.” 

“But you’re not in pain.” 

“No. At least, I can’t feel my injuries,” he said, smiling 
mockingly again. 

I bit my lip. I was never going to get through this. 

Why didn’t anyone ever try to kill me when I wanted 
to die? 

The wry humor left his face, and his eyes warmed up. 
His forehead creased, like he was worried. 

“How about you?” he asked, sounding really 
concerned. “Are you okay?” 

“Me?” I stared at him. Maybe he had taken too many 
drugs. “Why?” 

“Well, I mean, I was pretty sure that he wouldn’t 
actually hurt you, but I wasn’t sure how bad it was 
going to be. I’ve been going a little crazy with worrying 
about you ever since I woke up. I didn’t know if you 
were going to be allowed to visit or anything. The 
suspense was terrible. How did it go? Was he mean to 
you? I’m sorry if it was bad. I didn’t mean for you to 
have to go through that alone. I was thinking I’d be 
there... .” 

636 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It took me a minute to even understand. He babbled 
on, looking more and more awkward, until I got what 
he was saying. Then I hurried to reassure him. 

“No, no, Jake! I’m fine. Too fine, really. Of course he 
wasn’t mean. I wish!” 

His eyes widened in what looked like horror. “What?” 

“He wasn’t even mad at me — he wasn’t even mad at 
you! He’s so unselfish it makes me feel even worse. I 
wish he would have yelled at me or something. It’s not 
like I don’t deserve ... well, much worse that getting 
yelled at. But he doesn’t care. He just wants me to be 
happy.” 

“He wasn’t mad?” Jacob asked, incredulous. 

“No. He was ... much too kind.” 

Jacob stared for another minute, and then he 
suddenly frowned. “Well, damn!” he growled. 

“What’s wrong, Jake? Does it hurt?” My hands 
fluttered uselessly as I looked around for his 
medication. 

“No,” he grumbled in a disgusted tone. “I can’t believe 
this! He didn’t give you an ultimatum or anything?” 

“Not even close — what’s wrong with you?” 

He scowled and shook his head. “I was sort of 
counting on his reaction. Damn it all. He’s better than 
I thought.” 

The way he said it, though angrier, reminded me of 
Edward’s tribute to Jacob’s lack of ethics in the tent 



637 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




this morning. Which meant that Jake was still 
hoping, still fighting. I winced as that stabbed deep. 

“He’s not playing any game, Jake,” I said quietly. 

“You bet he is. He’s playing every bit as hard as I am, 
only he knows what he’s doing and I don’t. Don’t 
blame me because he’s a better manipulator than I 
am — I haven’t been around long enough to learn all 
his tricks.” 

“He isn’t manipulating me!” 

“Yes, he is! When are you going to wake up and 
realize that he’s not a perfect as you think he is?” 

“At least he didn’t threaten to kill himself to make me 
kiss him,” I snapped. As soon as the words were out, I 
flushed with chagrin. “Wait. Pretend that didn’t slip 
out. I swore to myself that I wasn’t going to say 
anything about that.” 

He took a deep breath. When he spoke, he was 
calmer. “Why not?” 

“Because I didn’t come here to blame you for 
anything.” 

“It’s true, though,” he said evenly. “I did do that.” 

“I don’t care, Jake. I’m not mad.” 

He smiled. “I don’t care, either. I knew you’d forgive 
me, and I’m glad I did it. I’d do it again. At least I have 
that much. At least I made you see that you do love 
me. That’s worth something.” 

“Is it? Is it really better than if I was still in the dark?” 



638 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Don’t you think you ought to know how you feel — 
just so that it doesn’t take you by surprise someday 
when it’s too late and you’re a married vampire?” 

I shook my head. “No — I didn’t mean better for me. I 
meant better for you. Does it make things better or 
worse for you, having me know that I’m in love with 
you? When it doesn’t make a difference either way. 
Would it have been better, easier for you, if I never 
clued in?” 

He took my question as seriously as I’d meant it, 
thinking carefully before he answered. “Yes, it’s better 
to have you know,” he finally decided. “If you hadn’t 
figured it out ... I’d have always wondered if your 
decision would have been different if you had. Now I 
know. I did everything I could.” He dragged in an 
unsteady breath, and closed his eyes. 

This time I did not — could not — resist the urge to 
comfort him. I crossed the small room and kneeled by 
his head, afraid to sit on the bed in case I jostled it 
and hurt him, and leaned in to touch my forehead to 
his cheek. 

Jacob sighed, and put his hand on my hair, holding 
me there. 

“I’m so sorry, Jake.” 

“I always knew this was a long shot. It’s not your 
fault, Bella.” 

“Not you, too,” I moaned. “Please.” 

He pulled away to look at me. “What?” 

“It is my fault. And I’m so sick of being told it’s not.” 



639 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He grinned. It didn’t touch his eyes. “You want me to 
haul you over the coals?” 



“Actually ... I think I do.” 

He pursed his lips as he measured how much I meant 
it. A smile flashed across his face briefly, and then he 
twisted his expression into a fierce scowl. 

“Kissing me back like that was inexcusable.” He spit 
the words at me. “If you knew you were just going to 
take it back, maybe you shouldn’t have been quite so 
convincing about it.” 

I winced and nodded. “I’m so sorry.” 

“Sorry doesn’t make anything better, Bella. What were 
you thinking?” 

“I wasn’t,” I whispered. 

“You should have told me to go die. That’s what you 
want.” 

“No, Jacob,” I whimpered, fighting against the 
budding tears. “No! Never.” 

“You’re not crying?” he demanded, his voice suddenly 
back to its normal tone. He twitched impatiently on 
the bed. 

“Yeah,” I muttered, laughing weakly at myself through 
the tears that were suddenly sobs. 

He shifted his weight, throwing his good leg off the 
bed as if he were going to try to stand. 

“What are you doing?” I demanded through the tears. 
“Lie down, you idiot, you’ll hurt yourself!” I jumped to 

640 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




my feet and pushed his good shoulder down with two 
hands. 



He surrendered, leaning back with a gasp of pain, but 
he grabbed me around my waist and pulled me down 
on the bed, against his good side. I curled up there, 
trying to stifle the silly sobs against his hot skin. 

“I can’t believe you’re crying,” he mumbled. “You 
know I just said those things because you wanted me 
to. I didn’t mean them.” His hand rubbed against my 
shoulders. 

“I know.” I took a deep, ragged breath, trying to 
control myself. How did I end up being the one crying 
while he did the comforting? “It’s all still true, though. 
Thanks for saying it out loud.” 

“Do I get points for making you cry?” 

“Sure, Jake.” I tried to smile. “As many as you want.” 

“Don’t worry, Bella, honey. It’s all going to work out.” 

“I don’t see how,” I muttered. 

He patted the top of my head. “I’m going to give in 
and be good.” 

“More games?” I wondered, tilting my chin so that I 
could see his face. 

“Maybe.” He laughed with a bit of effort, and then 
winced. “But I’m going to try.” 

I frowned. 

“Don’t be so pessimistic,” he complained. “Give me a 
little credit.” 

641 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“What do you mean by he good’?” 

“I’ll be your friend, Bella,” he said quietly. “I won’t ask 
for more than that.” 

“I think it’s too late for that, Jake. How can we be 
friends, when we love each other like this?” 

He looked at the ceiling, his stare intent, as if he were 
reading something that was written there. “Maybe ... 
it will have to be a long-distance friendship.” 

I clenched my teeth together, glad he wasn’t looking 
at my face, fighting against the sobs that threatened 
to overtake me again. I needed to be strong, and I had 
no idea how... . 

“You know that story in the Bible?” Jacob asked 
suddenly, still reading the blank ceiling. “The one 
with the king and the two women fighting over the 
baby?” 

“Sure. King Solomon.” 

“That’s right. King Solomon,” he repeated. “And he 
said, cut the kid in half ... but it was only a test. Just 
to see who would give up their share to protect it.” 

“Yeah, I remember.” 

He looked back at my face. “I’m not going to cut you 
in half anymore, Bella.” 

I understood what he was saying. He was telling me 
that he loved me the most, that his surrender proved 
it. I wanted to defend Edward, to tell Jacob how 
Edward would do the same thing if I wanted, if I 
would let him. I was the one who wouldn’t renounce 



642 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




my claim there. But there was no point in starting an 
argument that would only hurt him more. 

I closed my eyes, willing myself to control the pain. I 
couldn’t impose that on him. 

We were quiet for a moment. He seemed to be waiting 
for me to say something; I was trying to think of 
something to say. 

“Can I tell you what the worst part is?” he asked 
hesitantly when I said nothing. “Do you mind? I am 
going to be good.” 

“Will it help?” I whispered. 

“It might. It couldn’t hurt.” 

“What’s the worst part, then?” 

“The worse part is knowing what would have been.” 
“What might have been.” I sighed. 

“No.” Jacob shook his head. “I’m exactly right for you, 
Bella. It would have been effortless for us — 
comfortable, easy as breathing. I was the natural path 
your life would have taken... .” He stared into space 
for a moment, and I waited. “If the world was the way 
it was supposed to be, if there were no monsters and 
no magic ...” 

I could see what he saw, and I knew that he was 
right. If the world was the sane place it was supposed 
to be, Jacob and I would have been together. And we 
would have been happy. He was my soul mate in that 
world — would have been my soul mate still if his 
claim had not been overshadowed by something 



643 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




stronger, something so strong that it could not exist 
in a rational world. 

Was it out there for Jacob, too? Something that would 
trump a soul mate? I had to believe that it was. 

Two futures, two soul mates ... too much for any one 
person. And so unfair that I wouldn’t be the only one 
to pay for it. Jacob’s pain seemed too high a price. 
Cringing at the thought of that price, I wondered if I 
would have wavered, if I hadn’t lost Edward once. If I 
didn’t know what it was like to live without him. I 
wasn’t sure. That knowledge was so deep a part of 
me, I couldn’t imagine how I would feel without it. 

“He’s like a drug for you, Bella.” His voice was still 
gentle, not at all critical. “I see that you can’t live 
without him now. It’s too late. But I would have been 
healthier for you. Not a drug; I would have been the 
air, the sun.” 

The corner of my mouth turned up in a wistful half- 
smile. “I used to think of you that way, you know. 

Like the sun. My personal sun. You balanced out the 
clouds nicely for me.” 

He sighed. “The clouds I can handle. But I can’t fight 
with an eclipse.” 

I touched his face, laying my hand against his cheek. 
He exhaled at my touch and closed his eyes. It was 
very quiet. For a minute I could hear the beating of 
his heart, slow and even. 

“Tell me the worst part for you,” he whispered. 

“I think that might be a bad idea.” 

“Please.” 

644 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I think it will hurt.” 



“Please.” 

How could I deny him anything at this point? 

“The worst part ...” I hesitated, and then let words 
spill out in a flood of truth. “The worst part is that I 
saw the whole thing — our whole life. And I want it 
bad, Jake, I want it all. I want to stay right here and 
never move. I want to love you and make you happy. 
And I can’t, and it’s killing me. It’s like Sam and 
Emily, Jake — I never had a choice. I always knew 
nothing would change. Maybe that’s why I was 
fighting against you so hard.” 

He seemed to be concentrating on breathing evenly. 

“I knew I shouldn’t have told you that.” 

He shook his head slowly. “No. I’m glad you did. 
Thank you.” He kissed the top of my head, and then 
he sighed. “I’ll be good now.” 

I looked up, and he was smiling. 

“So you’re going to get married, huh?” 

“We don’t have to talk about that.” 

“I’d like to know some of the details. I don’t know 
when I’ll talk to you again.” 

I had to wait for a minute before I could speak. When 
I was pretty sure that my voice wouldn’t break, I 
answered his question. 

“It’s not really my idea ... but, yes. It means a lot to 
him. I figure, why not?” 

645 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Jake nodded. “That’s true. It’s not such a big thing — 
in comparison.” 

His voice was very calm, very practical. I stared at 
him, curious about how he was managing, and that 
ruined it. He met my eyes for a second, and then 
twisted his head away. I waited to speak until his 
breathing was under control. 

“Yes. In comparison,” I agreed. 

“How long do you have left?” 

“That depends on how long it takes Alice to pull a 
wedding together.” I suppressed a groan, imagining 
what Alice would do. 

“Before or after?” he asked quietly. 

I knew what he meant. “After.” 

He nodded. This was a relief to him. I wondered how 
many sleepless nights the thought of my graduation 
had given him. 

“Are you scared?” he whispered. 

“Yes,” I whispered back. 

“What are you afraid of?” I could barely hear his voice 
now. He stared down at my hands. 

“Lots of things.” I worked to make my voice lighter, 
but I stayed honest. “I’ve never been much of a 
masochist, so I’m not looking forward to the pain. 

And I wish there was some way to keep him away — I 
don’t want him to suffer with me, but I don’t think 
there’s any way around it. There’s dealing with 
Charlie, too, and Renee... . And then afterward, I hope 
646 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I’ll be able to control myself soon. Maybe I’ll be such a 
menace that the pack will have to take me out.” 

He looked up with a disapproving expression. “I’d 
hamstring any one of my brothers who tried.” 

“Thanks.” 

He smiled halfheartedly. Then he frowned. “But isn’t 
it more dangerous than that? In all of the stories, they 
say it’s too hard ... they lose control ... people die... .” 
He gulped. 

“No, I’m not afraid of that. Silly Jacob — don’t you 
know better than to believe vampire stories?” 

He obviously didn’t appreciate my attempt at humor. 

“Well, anyway, lots to worry about. But worth it, in 
the end.” 

He nodded unwillingly, and I knew that he in no way 
agreed with me. 

I stretched my neck up to whisper in his ear, laying 
my cheek against his warm skin. “You know I love 
you.” 

“I know,” he breathed, his arm tightening 
automatically around my waist. “You know how much 
I wish it was enough.” 

“Yes.” 

“I’ll always be waiting in the wings, Bella,” he 
promised, lightening his tone and loosening his arm. I 
pulled away with a dull, dragging sense of loss, feeling 
the tearing separation as I left a part of me behind, 



647 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




there on the bed next to him. “You’ll always have that 
spare option if you want it.” 

I made an effort to smile. “Until my heart stops 
beating.” 

He grinned back. “You know, I think maybe I’d still 
take you — maybe. I guess that depends on how 
much you stink.” 

“Should I come back to see you? Or would you rather 
I didn’t?” 

“I’ll think it through and get back to you,” he said. “I 
might need the company to keep from going crazy. 

The vampire surgeon extraordinaire says I can’t phase 
until he gives the okay — it might mess up the way 
the bones are set.” Jacob made a face. 

“Be good and do what Carlisle tells you to do. You’ll 
get well faster.” 

“Sure, sure.” 

“I wonder when it will happen,” I said. “When the 
right girl is going to catch your eye.” 

“Don’t get your hopes up, Bella.” Jacob’s voice was 
abruptly sour. “Though I’m sure it would be a relief 
for you.” 

“Maybe, maybe not. I probably won’t think she’s good 
enough for you. I wonder how jealous I’ll be.” 

“That part might be kind of fun,” he admitted. 

“Let me know if you want me to come back, and I’ll be 
here,” I promised. 



648 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




With a sigh, he turned his cheek toward me. 

I leaned in and kissed his face softly. “Love you, 
Jacob.” 

He laughed lightly. “Love you more.” 

He watched me walk out of his room with an 
unfathomable expression in his black eyes. 



649 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





I didn't get very far before driving became impossible. 

When I couldn’t see anymore, I let my tires find the 
rough shoulder and rolled slowly to a stop. I slumped 
over on the seat and allowed the weakness I’d fought 
in Jacob’s room crush me. It was worse that I’d 
thought — the force of it took me by surprise. Yes, I 
had been right to hide this from Jacob. No one should 
ever see this. 

But I wasn’t alone for very long — just exactly long 
enough for Alice to see me here, and then the few 
minutes it took him to arrive. The door creaked open, 
and he pulled me into his arms. 

At first it was worse. Because there was that smaller 
part of me — smaller, but getting louder and angrier 
every minute, screaming at the rest of me — that 
craved a different set of arms. So then there was fresh 
guilt to season the pain. 

He didn’t say anything, he just let me sob until I 
began to blubber out Charlie’s name. 

“Are you really ready to go home?” he asked 
doubtfully. 

I managed to convey, after several attempts, that it 
wasn’t going to get any better anytime soon. I needed 
to get past Charlie before it got late enough for him to 
call Billy. 

So he drove me home — for once not even getting 
close to my truck’s internal speed limit — keeping one 

650 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



arm wrapped tightly around me. The whole way, I 
fought for control. It seemed to be a doomed effort at 
first, but I didn’t give up. Just a few seconds, I told 
myself. Just time for a few excuses, or a few lies, and 
then I could break down again. I had to be able to do 
that much. I scrambled around in my head, searching 
desperately for a reserve of strength. 

There was just enough for me to quiet the sobs — 
hold them back but not end them. The tears didn’t 
slow. I couldn’t seem to find any handle to even begin 
to work with those. 

“Wait for me upstairs,” I mumbled when we were in 
front of the house. 

He hugged me closer for one minute, and then he was 
gone. 

Once inside, I headed straight for the stairs. 

“Bella?” Charlie called after me from his usual place 
on the sofa as I walked by. 

I turned to look at him without speaking. His eyes 
bugged wide, and he lurched to his feet. 

“What happened? Is Jacob ... ?” he demanded. 

I shook my head furiously, trying to find my voice. 
“He’s fine, he’s fine,” I promised, my voice low and 
husky. And Jacob was fine, physically, which is all 
Charlie was worried about at the moment. 

“But what happened?” He grabbed my shoulders, his 
eyes still anxious and wide. “What happened to you?” 

I must look worse than I’d imagined. 



651 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Nothing, Dad. I ... just had to talk to Jacob about ... 
some things that were hard. I’m fine.” 

The anxiety calmed, and was replaced by disapproval. 

“Was this really the best time?” he asked. 

“Probably not, Dad, but I didn’t have any alternatives 
— it just got to the point where I had to choose... . 
Sometimes, there isn’t any way to compromise.” 

He shook his head slowly. “How did he handle it?” 

I didn’t answer. 

He looked at my face for a minute, and then nodded. 
That must have been answer enough. 

“I hope you didn’t mess up his recovery.” 

“He’s a quick healer,” I mumbled. 

Charlie sighed. 

I could feel the control slipping. 

“I’ll be in my room,” I told him, shrugging out from 
underneath his hands. 

“’Kay,” Charlie agreed. He could probably see the 
waterworks starting to escalate. Nothing scared 
Charlie worse than tears. 

I made my way to my room, blind and stumbling. 

Once inside, I fought with the clasp on my bracelet, 
trying to undo it with shaking fingers. 



652 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“No, Bella,” Edward whispered, capturing my hands. 
“It’s part of who you are.” 

He pulled me into the cradle of his arms as the sobs 
broke free again. 

This longest of days seemed to stretch on and on and 
on. I wondered if it would ever end. 

But, though the night dragged relentlessly, it was not 
the worst night of my life. I took comfort from that. 
And I was not alone. There was a great deal of comfort 
in that, too. 

Charlie’s fear of emotional outbursts kept him from 
checking on me, though I was not quiet — he 
probably got no more sleep than I did. 

My hindsight seemed unbearably clear tonight. I 
could see every mistake I’d made, every bit of harm I’d 
done, the small things and the big things. Each pain 
I’d caused Jacob, each wound I’d given Edward, 
stacked up into neat piles that I could not ignore or 
deny. 

And I realized that I’d been wrong all along about the 
magnets. It had not been Edward and Jacob that I’d 
been trying to force together, it was the two parts of 
myself, Edward’s Bella and Jacob’s Bella. But they 
could not exist together, and I never should have 
tried. 

I’d done so much damage. 

At some point in the night, I remembered the promise 
I’d made to myself early this morning — that I would 
never make Edward see me shed another tear for 
Jacob Black. The thought brought on a round of 
hysteria which frightened Edward more than the 
653 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




weeping. But it passed, too, when it had run its 
course. 

Edward said little; he just held me on the bed and let 
me ruin his shirt, staining it with salt water. 

It took longer than I thought it would for that smaller, 
broken part of me to cry herself out. It happened, 
though, and I was eventually exhausted enough to 
sleep. Unconsciousness did not bring full relief from 
the pain, just a numbing, dulling ease, like medicine. 
Made it more bearable. But it was still there; I was 
aware of it, even asleep, and that helped me to make 
the adjustments I needed to make. 

The morning brought with it, if not a brighter outlook, 
as least a measure of control, some acceptance. 
Instinctively, I knew that the new tear in my heart 
would always ache. That was just going to be a part of 
me now. Time would make it easier — that’s what 
everyone always said. But I didn’t care if time healed 
me or not, so long as Jacob could get better. Could be 
happy again. 

When I woke up, there was no disorientation. I 
opened my eyes — finally dry — and met his anxious 
gaze. 

“Hey,” I said. My voice was hoarse. I cleared my 
throat. 

He didn’t answer. He watched me, waiting for it to 
start. 

“No, I’m fine,” I promised. “That won’t happen again.” 
His eyes tightened at my words. 



654 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I’m sorry that you had to see that,” I said. “That 
wasn’t fair to you.” 

He put his hands on either side of my face. 

“Bella . . . are you sure? Did you make the right 
choice? I’ve never seen you in so much pain — ” His 
voice broke on the last word. 

But I had known worse pain. 

I touched his lips. “Yes.” 

“I don’t know... .” His brow creased. “If it hurts you so 
much, how can it possibly be the right thing for you?” 

“Edward, I know who I can’t live without.” 

“But ...” 

I shook my head. “You don’t understand. You may be 
brave enough or strong enough to live without me, if 
that’s what’s best. But I could never be that self- 
sacrificing. I have to be with you. It’s the only way I 
can live.” 

He still looked dubious. I should never have let him 
stay with me last night. But I had needed him so 
much... . 

“Hand me that book, will you?” I asked, pointing over 
his shoulder. 

His eyebrows pulled together in confusion, but he 
gave it to me quickly. 

“This again?” he asked. 



655 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“I just wanted to find this one part I remembered ... to 
see how she said it... .” I flipped through the book, 
finding the page I wanted easily. The corner was dog- 
eared from the many times I’d stopped here. “Cathy’s 
a monster, but there were a few things she got right,” 

I muttered. I read the lines quietly, mostly to myself. 
“‘If all else perished, and he remained, I should still 
continue to be; and if all else remained, and he were 
annihilated, the universe would turn to a mighty 
stranger.’” I nodded, again to myself. “I know exactly 
what she means. And I know who I can’t live without.” 

Edward took the book from my hands and flipped it 
across the room — it landed with a light thud on my 
desk. He wrapped his arms around my waist. 

A small smile lit his perfect face, though worry still 
lined his forehead. “Heathcliff had his moments, too,” 
he said. He didn’t need the book to get it word perfect. 
He pulled me closer and whispered in my ear, “‘I 
cannot live without my life! I cannot live without my 
soul!”’ 

“Yes,” I said quietly. “That’s my point.” 

“Bella, I can’t stand for you to be miserable. Maybe 



“No, Edward. I’ve made a real mess of things, and I’m 
going to have to live with that. But I know what I 
want and what I need ... and what I’m going to do 
now.” 

“What are we going to do now?” 

I smiled just a bit at his correction, and then I sighed. 
“We are going to go see Alice.” 



656 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Alice was on the bottom porch step, too hyper to wait 
for us inside. She looked about to break into a 
celebration dance, so excited was she about the news 
she knew I was there to deliver. 

“Thank you, Bella!” she sang as we got out of the 
truck. 

“Hold it, Alice,” I warned her, lifting a hand up to halt 
her glee. “I’ve got a few limitations for you.” 

“I know, I know, I know. I only have until August 
thirteenth at the latest, you have veto power on the 
guest list, and if I go overboard on anything, you’ll 
never speak to me again.” 

“Oh, okay. Well, yeah. You know the rules, then.” 

“Don’t worry, Bella, it will be perfect. Do you want to 
see your dress?” 

I had to take a few deep breaths. Whatever makes her 
happy, I said to myself. 

“Sure.” 

Alice’s smile was smug. 

“Um, Alice,” I said, keeping the casual, unruffled tone 
in my voice. “When did you get me a dress?” 

It probably wasn’t much of a show. Edward squeezed 
my hand. 

Alice led the way inside, heading for the stairs. “These 
things take time, Bella,” Alice explained. Her tone 
seemed ... evasive. “I mean, I wasn’t sure things were 
going to turn out this way, but there was a distinct 
possibility... .” 

657 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“When?” I asked again. 

“Perrine Bruyere has a waiting list, you know,” she 
said, defensive now. “Fabric masterpieces don’t 
happen overnight. If I hadn’t thought ahead, you’d be 
wearing something off the rack!” 

It didn’t look like I was going to get a straight answer. 
“Per — who?” 

“He’s not a major designer, Bella, so there’s no need 
to throw a hissy fit. He’s got promise, though, and he 
specializes in what I needed.” 

“I’m not throwing a fit.” 

“No, you’re not.” She eyed my calm face suspiciously. 
Then, as we walked into her room, she turned on 
Edward. 

“You — out.” 

“Why?” I demanded. 

“Bella,” she groaned. “You know the rules. He’s not 
supposed to see the dress till the day of.” 

I took another deep breath. “It doesn’t matter to me. 
And you know he’s already seen it in your head. But 
if that’s how you want it... .” 

She shoved Edward back out the door. He didn’t even 
look at her — his eyes were on me, wary, afraid to 
leave me alone. 

I nodded, hoping my expression was tranquil enough 
to reassure him. 



Alice shut the door in his face. 

658 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“All right!” she muttered. “C’mon.” 



She grabbed my wrist and towed me to her closet — 
which was bigger than my bedroom — and then 
dragged me to the back corner, where a long white 
garment bag had a rack all to itself. 

She unzipped the bag in one sweeping movement, 
and then slipped it carefully off the hanger. She took 
a step back, holding her hand out to the dress like 
she was a game show hostess. 

“Well?” she asked breathlessly. 

I appraised it for a long moment, playing with her a 
bit. Her expression turned worried. 

“Ah,” I said, and I smiled, letting her relax. “I see.” 

“What do you think?” she demanded. 

It was my Anne of Green Gables vision all over again. 

“It’s perfect, of course. Exactly right. You’re a genius.” 

She grinned. “I know.” 

“Nineteen-eighteen?” I guessed. 

“More or less,” she said, nodding. “Some of it is my 
design, the train, the veil... .” She touched the white 
satin as she spoke. “The lace is vintage. Do you like 
it?” 



“It’s beautiful. It’s just right for him.” 

“But is it just right for you?” she insisted. 



659 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Yes, I think it is, Alice. I think it’s just what I need. I 
know you’ll do a great job with this ... if you can keep 
yourself in check.” 

She beamed. 

“Can I see your dress?” I asked. 

She blinked, her face blank. 

“Didn’t you order your bridesmaid dress at the same 
time? I wouldn’t want my maid of honor to wear 
something off the rack.” I pretended to wince in 
horror. 

She threw her arms around my waist. “Thank you, 
Bella!” 

“How could you not see that one coming?” I teased, 
kissing her spiky hair. “Some psychic you are!” 

Alice danced back, and her face was bright with fresh 
enthusiasm. “I’ve got so much to do! Go play with 
Edward. I have to get to work.” 

She dashed out of the room, yelling, “Esme!” as she 
disappeared. 

I followed at my own pace. Edward was waiting for me 
in the hallway, leaning against the wood-paneled wall. 

“That was very, very nice of you,” he told me. 

“She seems happy,” I agreed. 

He touched my face; his eyes — too dark, it had been 
so long since he’d left me — searched my expression 
minutely. 



660 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Let’s get out of here,” he suddenly suggested. “Let’s 
go to our meadow.” 

It sounded very appealing. “I guess I don’t have to 
hide out anymore, do I?” 

“No. The danger is behind us.” 

He was quiet, thoughtful, as he ran. The wind blew on 
my face, warmer now that the storm had really 
passed. The clouds covered the sky, the way they 
usually did. 

The meadow was a peaceful, happy place today. 
Patches of summer daisies interrupted the grass with 
splashes of white and yellow. I lay back, ignoring the 
slight dampness of the ground, and looked for 
pictures in the clouds. They were too even, too 
smooth. No pictures, just a soft, gray blanket. 

Edward lay next to me and held my hand. 

“August thirteenth?” he asked casually after a few 
minutes of comfortable silence. 

“That gives me a month till my birthday. I didn’t want 
to cut it too close.” 

He sighed. “Esme is three years older than Carlisle — 
technically. Did you know that?” 

I shook my head. 

“It hasn’t made any difference to them.” 

My voice was serene, a counterpoint to his anxiety. 
“My age is not really that important. Edward, I’m 
ready. I’ve chosen my life — now I want to start living 
it.” 

661 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He stroked my hair. “The guest list veto?” 

“I don’t care really, but I ...” I hesitated, not wanting 
to explain this one. Best to get it over with. “I’m not 
sure if Alice would feel the need to invite ... a few 
werewolves. I don’t know if ... Jake would feel like ... 
like he should come. Like that’s the right thing to do, 
or that I’d get my feelings hurt if he didn’t. He 
shouldn’t have to go through that.” 

Edward was quiet for a minute. I stared at the tips of 
the treetops, almost black against the light gray of the 
sky. 

Suddenly, Edward grabbed me around the waist and 
pulled me onto his chest. 

“Tell me why you’re doing this, Bella. Why did you 
decide, now, to give Alice free reign?” 

I repeated for him the conversation I had with Charlie 
last night before I’d gone to see Jacob. 

“It wouldn’t be fair to keep Charlie out of this,” I 
concluded. “And that means Renee and Phil. I might 
as well let Alice have her fun, too. Maybe it will make 
the whole thing easier for Charlie if he gets his proper 
goodbye. Even if he thinks it’s much too early, I 
wouldn’t want to cheat him out of the chance to walk 
me down the aisle.” I grimaced at the words, then 
took another deep breath. “At least my mom and dad 
and my friends will know the best part of my choice, 
the most I’m allowed to tell them. They’ll know I chose 
you, and they’ll know we’re together. They’ll know I’m 
happy, wherever I am. I think that’s the best I can do 
for them.” 

Edward held my face, searching it for a brief time. 



662 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Deal’s off,” he said abruptly. 

“What?” I gasped. “You’re backing out? No!” 

“I’m not backing out, Bella. I’ll still keep my side of 
the bargain. But you’re off the hook. Whatever you 
want, no strings attached.” 

“Why?” 

“Bella, I see what you’re doing. You’re trying to make 
everyone else happy. And I don’t care about anyone 
else’s feelings. I only need you to be happy. Don’t 
worry about breaking the news to Alice. I’ll take care 
of it. I promise she won’t make you feel guilty.” 

“But I — ” 

“No. We’re doing this your way. Because my way 
doesn’t work. I call you stubborn, but look at what 
I’ve done. I’ve clung with such idiotic obstinacy to my 
idea of what’s best for you, though it’s only hurt you. 
Hurt you so deeply, time and time again. I don’t trust 
myself anymore. You can have happiness your way. 
My way is always wrong. So.” He shifted under me, 
squaring his shoulders. “We’re doing it your way, 

Bella. Tonight. Today. The sooner the better. I’ll speak 
to Carlisle. I was thinking that maybe if we gave you 
enough morphine, it wouldn’t be so bad. It’s worth a 
try.” He gritted his teeth. 

“Edward, no — ” 

He put his finger to my lips. “Don’t worry, Bella, love. 

I haven’t forgotten the rest of your demands.” 

His hands were in my hair, his lips moving softly — 
but very seriously — against mine, before I realized 
what he was saying. What he was doing. 

663 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




There wasn’t much time to act. If I waited too long, I 
wouldn’t be able to remember why I needed to stop 
him. Already, I couldn’t breathe right. My hands were 
gripping his arms, pulling myself tighter to him, my 
mouth glued to his and answering every unspoken 
question his asked. 

I tried to clear my head, to find a way to speak. 

He rolled gently, pressing me into the cool grass. 

Oh, never mind! my less noble side exulted. My head 
was full of the sweetness of his breath. 

No, no, no, I argued with myself. I shook my head, 
and his mouth moved to my neck, giving me a chance 
to breathe. 

“Stop, Edward. Wait.” My voice was as weak as my 
will. 

“Why?” he whispered into the hollow of my throat. 

I labored to put some resolve into my tone. “I don’t 
want to do this now.” 

“Don’t you?” he asked, a smile in his voice. He moved 
his lips back to mine and made speaking impossible. 
Heat coursed through my veins, burning where my 
skin touched his. 

I made myself focus. It took a great deal of effort just 
to force my hands to free themselves from his hair, to 
move them to his chest. But I did it. And then I 
shoved against him, trying to push him away. I could 
not succeed alone, but he responded as I knew he 
would. 



664 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




He pulled back a few inches to look at me, and his 
eyes did nothing to help my resolve. They were black 
fire. They smoldered. 

“Why?” he asked again, his voice low and rough. “I 
love you. I want you. Right now.” 

The butterflies in my stomach flooded my throat. He 
took advantage of my speechlessness. 

“Wait, wait,” I tried to say around his lips. 

“Not for me,” he murmured in disagreement. 

“Please?” I gasped. 

He groaned, and pushed himself away from me, 
rolling onto his back again. 

We both lay there for a minute, trying to slow our 
breathing. 

“Tell me why not, Bella,” he demanded. “This had 
better not be about me.” 

Everything in my world was about him. What a silly 
thing to expect. 

“Edward, this is very important to me. I am going to 
do this right.” 

“Who’s definition of right?” 

“Mine.” 

He rolled onto his elbow and stared at me, his 
expression disapproving. 

“How are you going to do this right?” 

665 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I took a deep breath. “Responsibly. Everything in the 
right order. I will not leave Charlie and Renee without 
the best resolution I can give them. I won’t deny Alice 
her fun, if I’m having a wedding anyway. And I will tie 
myself to you in every human way, before I ask you to 
make me immortal. I’m following all the rules, 

Edward. Your soul is far, far too important to me to 
take chances with. You’re not going to budge me on 
this.” 

“I’ll bet I could,” he murmured, his eyes burning 
again. 

“But you wouldn’t,” I said, trying to keep my voice 
level. “Not knowing that this is what I really need.” 

“You don’t fight fair,” he accused. 

I grinned at him. “Never said I did.” 

He smiled back, wistful. “If you change your mind ...” 

“You’ll be the first to know,” I promised. 

The rain started to drip through the clouds just then, 
a few scattered drops that made faint thuds as they 
struck the grass. 

I glowered at the sky. 

“I’ll get you home.” He brushed the tiny beads of 
water from my cheeks. 

“Rain’s not the problem,” I grumbled. “It just means 
that it’s time to go do something that will be very 
unpleasant and possibly even highly dangerous.” 

His eyes widened in alarm. 



666 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“It’s a good thing you’re bulletproof.” I sighed. “I’m 
going to need that ring. It’s time to tell Charlie.” 

He laughed at the expression on my face. “Highly 
dangerous,” he agreed. He laughed again and then 
reached into the pocket of his jeans. “But as least 
there’s no need for a side trip.” 

He once again slid my ring into place on the third 
finger of my left hand. 

Where it would stay — conceivably for the rest of 
eternity. 



667 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 





cryue 



CHOICE 



“Jacob, do you think this is going to take too much 
longer?” Leah demanded. Impatient. Whiney. 

My teeth clenched together. 

Like anyone in the pack, Leah knew everything. She 
knew why I came here — to the very edge of the earth 
and sky and sea. To be alone. She knew that this was 
all I wanted. Just to be alone. 

But Leah was going to force her company on me, 
anyway. 

Besides being crazy annoyed, I did feel smug for a 
brief second. Because I didn’t even have to think 
about controlling my temper. It was easy now, 
something I just did, natural. The red haze didn’t 
wash over my eyes. The heat didn’t shiver down my 
spine. My voice was calm when I answered. 

“Jump off a cliff, Leah.” I pointed to the one at my 
feet. 

“Really, kid.” She ignored me, throwing herself into a 
sprawl on the ground next to me. “You have no idea 
how hard this is for me.” 

“For you?” It took me a minute to believe she was 
serious. “You have to be the most self-absorbed 
person alive, Leah. I’d hate to shatter the dream world 
you live in — the one where the sun is orbiting the 
place where you stand — so I won’t tell you how little 
I care what your problem is. Go. Away.” 



668 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 



“Just look at this from my perspective for a minute, 
okay?” she continued as if I hadn’t said anything. 

If she was trying to break my mood, it worked. I 
started laughing. The sound hurt in strange ways. 

“Stop snorting and pay attention,” she snapped. 

“If I pretend to listen, will you leave?” I asked, 
glancing over at the permanent scowl on her face. I 
wasn’t sure if she had any other expressions 
anymore. 

I remembered back to when I used to think that Leah 
was pretty, maybe even beautiful. That was a long 
time ago. No one thought of her that way now. Except 
for Sam. He was never going to forgive himself. Like it 
was his fault that she’d turned into this bitter harpy. 

Her scowl heated up, as if she could guess what I was 
thinking. Probably could. 

“This is making me sick, Jacob. Can you imagine 
what this feels like to me? I don’t even like Bella 
Swan. And you’ve got me grieving over this leech-lover 
like I’m in love with her, too. Can you see where that 
might be a little confusing? I dreamed about kissing 
her last night! What the hell am I supposed to do with 
that?” 

“Do I care?” 

“I can’t stand being in your head anymore! Get over 
her already! She’s going to marry that thing. He’s 
going to try to change her into one of them! Time to 
move on, boy.” 

“Shut up,” I growled. 



669 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




It would be wrong to strike back. I knew that. I was 
biting my tongue. But she’d be sorry if she didn’t walk 
away. Now. 

“He’ll probably just kill her anyway,” Leah said. 
Sneering. “All the stories say that happens more often 
than not. Maybe a funeral will be better closure than 
a wedding. Ha.” 

This time I had to work. I closed my eyes and fought 
the hot taste in my mouth. I pushed and shoved 
against the slide of fire down my back, wrestling to 
keep my shape together while my body tried to shake 
apart. 

When I was in control again, I glowered at her. She 
was watching my hands as the tremors slowed. 
Smiling. 

Some joke. 

“If you’re upset about gender confusion, Leah ... ,” I 
said. Slow, emphasizing each word. “How do you 
think the rest of us like looking at Sam through your 
eyes? It’s bad enough that Emily has to deal with 
your fixation. She doesn’t need us guys panting after 
him, too.” 

Pissed as I was, I still felt guilty when I watched the 
spasm of pain shoot across her face. 

She scrambled to her feet — pausing only to spit in 
my direction — and ran for the trees, vibrating like a 
tuning fork. 

I laughed darkly. “You missed.” 



670 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Sam was going to give me hell for that, but it was 
worth it. Leah wouldn’t bug me anymore. And I’d do it 
again if I had the chance. 

Because her words were still there, scratching 
themselves into my brain, the pain of it so strong that 
I could hardly breathe. 

It didn’t matter so much that Bella’d chosen someone 
else over me. That agony was nothing at all. That 
agony I could live with for the rest of my stupid, too 
long, stretched-out life. 

But it did matter that she was giving up everything — 
that she was letting her heart stop and her skin ice 
over and her mind twist into some crystallized 
predator’s head. A monster. A stranger. 

I would have thought there was nothing worse than 
that, nothing more painful in the whole world. 

But, if he killed her . . . 

Again, I had to fight the rage. Maybe, if not for Leah, 
it would be good to let the heat change me into a 
creature who could deal with it better. A creature with 
instincts so much stronger than human emotions. An 
animal who couldn’t feel pain in the same way. A 
different pain. Some variety, at least. But Leah was 
running now, and I didn’t want to share her thoughts. 
I cussed her under my breath for taking away that 
escape, too. 

My hands were shaking in spite of me. What shook 
them? Anger? Agony? I wasn’t sure what I was 
fighting now. 



671 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




I had to believe that Bella would survive. But that 
required trust — a trust I didn’t want to feel, a trust 
in that bloodsucker’s ability to keep her alive. 

She would be different, and I wondered how that 
would affect me. Would it be the same as if she had 
died, to see her standing there like a stone? Like ice? 
When her scent burned in my nostrils and triggered 
the instinct to rip, to tear ... How would that be? 

Could I want to kill her? Could I not want to kill one 
of them? 

I watched the swells roll toward the beach. They 
disappeared from sight under the edge of the cliff, but 
I heard them beat against the sand. I watched them 
until it was late, long after dark. 

Going home was probably a bad idea. But I was 
hungry, and I couldn’t think of another plan. 

I made a face as I pulled my arm through the retarded 
sling and grabbed my crutches. If only Charlie hadn’t 
seen me that day and spread the word of my 
“motorcycle accident.” Stupid props. I hated them. 

Going hungry started to look better when I walked in 
the house and got a look at my dad’s face. He had 
something on his mind. It was easy to tell — he 
always overdid it. Acted all casual. 

He also talked too much. He was rambling about his 
day before I could get to the table. He never jabbered 
like this unless there was something that he didn’t 
want to say. I ignored him as best I could, 
concentrating on the food. The faster I choked it down 



"... and Sue stopped by today.” My dad’s voice was 
loud. Hard to ignore. As always. “Amazing woman. 

672 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




She’s tougher than grizzlies, that one. I don’t know 
how she deals with that daughter of hers, though. 

Now Sue, she would have made one hell of a wolf. 
Leah’s more of a wolverine.” He chuckled at his own 
joke. 

He waited briefly for my response, but didn’t seem to 
see my blank, bored-out-of-my-mind expression. Most 
days that bugged him. I wished he would shut up 
about Leah. I was trying not to think about her. 

“Seth’s a lot easier. Of course, you were easier than 
your sisters, too, until ... well, you have more to deal 
with than they did.” 

I sighed, long and deep, and stared out the window. 

Billy was quiet for a second too long. “We got a letter 
today.” 

I could tell that this was the subject he’d been 
avoiding. 

“A letter?” 

“A ... wedding invitation.” 

Every muscle in my body locked into place. A feather 
of heat seemed to brush down my back. I held onto 
the table to keep my hands steady. 

Billy went on like he hadn’t noticed. “There’s a note 
inside that’s addressed to you. I didn’t read it.” 

He pulled a thick ivory envelope from where it was 
wedged between his leg and the side of his 
wheelchair. He laid it on the table between us. 



673 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“You probably don’t need to read it. Doesn’t really 
matter what it says.” 

Stupid reverse psychology. I yanked the envelope off 
the table. 

It was some heavy, stiff paper. Expensive. Too fancy 
for Forks. The card inside was the same, too done-up 
and formal. Bella’d had nothing to do with this. There 
was no sign of her personal taste in the layers of see- 
through, petal-printed pages. I’d bet she didn’t like it 
at all. I didn’t read the words, not even to see the 
date. I didn’t care. 

There was a piece of the thick ivory paper folded in 
half with my name handwritten in black ink on the 
back. I didn’t recognize the handwriting, but it was as 
fancy as the rest of it. For half a second, I wondered if 
the bloodsucker was into gloating. 

I flipped it open. 

C Jacob , 



J w breaking th niles by scndmgyou this.ffle was^aJi-auhjJ- 
hurtirgyou, and she didn t leant to wake ycmjecl obligated in 
anyway. ButlJ know thaLifthirgs had gone the other way, 
j7 would have wanted the choice. 

J promise J will take carcpfhcr, oJacob. ffiank/you - 
fa- her pjor everything. 



fcdward 



674 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




“Jake, we only have the one table,” Billy said. He was 
staring at my left hand. 

My fingers were clamped down on the wood hard 
enough that it really was in danger. I loosened them 
one by one, concentrating on that action alone, and 
then clenched my hands together so I couldn’t break 
anything. 

“Yeah, doesn’t matter anyway, ” Billy muttered. 

I got up from the table, shrugging out of my t-shirt as 
I stood. Hopefully Leah had gone home by now. 

“Not too late,” Billy mumbled as I punched the front 
door out of my way. 

I was running before I hit the trees, my clothes strewn 
out behind me like a trail of crumbs — as if I wanted 
to find my way back. It was almost too easy now to 
phase. I didn’t have to think. My body already knew 
where I was going and, before I asked it to, it gave me 
what I wanted. 

I had four legs now, and I was flying. 

The trees blurred into a sea of black flowing around 
me. My muscles bunched and released in an effortless 
rhythm. I could run like this for days and I would not 
be tired. Maybe, this time, I wouldn’t stop. 

But I wasn’t alone. 

So sorry, Embry whispered in my head. 

I could see through his eyes. He was far away, to the 
north, but he had wheeled around and was racing to 
join me. I growled and pushed myself faster. 



675 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




Wait for us, Quil complained. He was closer, just 
starting out from the village. 

Leave me alone, I snarled. 

I could feel their worry in my head, try hard as I 
might to drown it in the sound of the wind and the 
forest. This was what I hated most — seeing myself 
through their eyes, worse now that their eyes were 
full of pity. They saw the hate, but they kept running 
after me. 

A new voice sounded in my head. 

Let him go. Sam’s thought was soft, but still an order. 
Embry and Quil slowed to a walk. 

If only I could stop hearing, stop seeing what they 
saw. My head was so crowded, but the only way to be 
alone again was to be human, and I couldn’t stand 
the pain. 

Phase back, Sam directed them. I’ll pick you up, 
Embry. 

First one, then another awareness faded into silence. 
Only Sam was left. 

Thank you, I managed to think. 

Come home when you can. The words were faint, 
trailing off into blank emptiness as he left, too. And I 
was alone. 

So much better. Now I could hear the faint rustle of 
the matted leaves beneath my toenails, the whisper of 
an owl’s wings above me, the ocean — far, far in the 
west — moaning against the beach. Hear this, and 
nothing more. Feel nothing but speed, nothing but 
676 | P a g e Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




the pull of muscle, sinew, and bone, working together 
in harmony as the miles disappeared behind me. 

If the silence in my head lasted, I would never go 
back. I wouldn’t be the first one to choose this form 
over the other. Maybe, if I ran far enough away, I 
would never have to hear again... . 

I pushed my legs faster, letting Jacob Black disappear 
behind me. 



677 | P a g e 



Eclipse - Stephanie Meyer 




